.\" $RCSId: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/kdrive/Xkdrive.man,v 1.3 2001/01/24 00:06:10 dawes Exp $
.\"
.TH Xkdrive 1 @vendorversion@
.SH NAME
Xkdrive \- tiny X server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Xfbdev
.RI [ :display ]
.RI [ option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xkdrive
is a family of X servers designed to be particularly small.  This
manual page describes the common functionality of the 
.B Xkdrive
servers; for information on a specific X server, please refer to the
relevant manual page.
.SH OPTIONS
In addition to the standard options accepted by all X servers (see
Xserver(1)), all the 
.B Xkdrive
servers accept the following options:
.TP 8
.B -dumb
disable hardware acceleration.
.TP 8
.B -origin \fIX\fP,\fIY\fP
Locates the next screen in the Xinerama virtual screen.
.TP 8
.B -screen \fIwidth\fBx\fIheight\fR[\fBx\fIdepth\fR[\fBx\fIfreq\fR]]\fR[\fB@\fIrotation\fR]\fB
use a screen of the specified \fIwidth\fP, \fIheight\fP, screen \fIdepth\fP, \fIfrequency\fP, and \fIrotation\fP (0, 90, 180 and 270 are legal values).
.TP 8
.B -softCursor
disable the hardware cursor.
.TP 8
.B -videoTest
start the server, pause momentarily, and exit.
.TP 8
.B -zaphod
disable switching screens by moving the pointer across a screen boundary.
.TP 8
.B -2button
enable emulation of a middle mouse button by chording.
.TP 8
.B -3button
disable emulation of a middle mouse button by chording.
.SH SEE ALSO
X(@miscmansuffix@), Xserver(1), xdm(1), xinit(1), Xvesa(1), Xfbdev(1).
.SH AUTHORS
The Xkdrive common core was written by Keith Packard,
and is based on the Sample Implementation of X.
