.\"
.TH XKBCOMP 1 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
xkbcomp \- compile XKB keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xkbcomp
[option] source [ destination ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I xkbcomp
keymap compiler converts a description of an XKB keymap into one of several
output formats.   The most common use for xkbcomp is to create a compiled
keymap file (.xkm extension) which can be read directly by XKB-capable X
servers or utilities.   The keymap compiler can also produce C header
files or XKB source files.  The C header files produced by xkbcomp can be
included by X servers or utilities that need a built-in default keymap.
The XKB source files produced by \fIxkbcomp\fP are fully resolved and can be
used to verify that the files which typically make up an XKB keymap
are merged correctly or to create a single file which contains a complete
description of the keymap.
.PP
The \fIsource\fP may specify an X display, or an \fI.xkb\fP or \fI.xkm\fP
file;  unless explicitly specified, the format of \fIdestination\fP
depends on the format of the source.   Compiling a \fI.xkb\fP (keymap source)
file generates a \fI.xkm\fP (compiled keymap file) by default.   If the
source is a \fI.xkm\fP file or an X display, \fIxkbcomp\fP generates a
keymap source file by default.
.PP
If the \fIdestination\fP is an X display, the keymap for the display
is updated with the compiled keymap.
.PP
The name of the \fIdestination\fP is usually computed from the name
of the source, with the extension replaced as appropriate.  When compiling
a single map from a file which contains several maps, \fIxkbcomp\fP constructs
the destination file name by appending an appropriate extension to the
name of the map to be used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-a
Show all keyboard information, reporting implicit or derived information
as a comment.  Only affects \fI.xkb\fP format output.
.TP 8
.B \-C
Produce a C header file as output (.h extension).
.TP 8
.B \-dflts
Compute defaults for any missing components, such as key names.
.TP 8
.B \-em1 \fImsg\fP
Print \fImsg\fP before printing first error message.
.TP 8
.B \-emp \fImsg\fP
Print \fImsg\fP at the start of each message line.
.TP 8
.B \-eml \fImsg\fP
If there were any errors, print \fImsg\fP before exiting.
.TP 8
.B \-help, -?
Show available options.
.TP 8
.B \-I\fIdir\fP
Specifies top-level directories to be searched for files included by the
keymap description.  After all directories specified by \-I options
have been searched, the current directory and finally, the default
xkb directory __xkbconfigroot__ will be searched.
.sp
To prevent the current and default directories from being searched,
use the \-I option alone (i.e. without a directory), before any \-I
options that specify the directories you do want searched.
.TP 8
.B \-i\ \fIdeviceid\fP
If \fIsource\fP or \fIdestination\fP is a valid X display, load the keymap
from/into the device with the specified ID (not name).
.TP 8
.B \-l
List maps that specify the \fImap\fP pattern in any files listed on the
command line (not implemented yet).
.TP 8
.B \-m\ \fIname\fP
Specifies a map to be compiled from an file with multiple entries.
.TP 8
.B \-merge
Merge the compiled information with the map from the server (not implemented
yet).
.TP 8
.B \-o\ \fIname\fP
Specifies a name for the generated output file.  The default is the name of
the source file with an appropriate extension for the output format.
.TP 8
.B \-opt\ \fIparts\fP
Specifies a list of optional parts.  Compilation errors in any optional parts
are not fatal.  Parts may consist of any combination of the letters \fIc\fP,
\fIg\fP,\fIk\fP,\fIs\fP,\fIt\fP which specify the compatibility map, geometry,
keycodes, symbols and types, respectively.
.TP 8
.B -R\fIdir\fP
Specifies the root directory for relative path names.
.TP 8
.B -synch
Force synchronization for X requests.
.TP 8
.B -version
Print version number.
.TP 8
.B \-w\ \fIlvl\fP
Controls the reporting of warnings during compilation.  A warning level
of 0 disables all warnings; a warning level of 10 enables them all.
.TP 8
.B \-xkb
Generate a source description of the keyboard as output (.xkb extension).
.TP 8
.B \-xkm
Generate a compiled keymap file as output (.xkm extension).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Fortune, Silicon Graphics
