Official communities are curated by [@termux
developers](https://github.com/orgs/termux/people) or by trusted person.
Each community follows these rules with no exceptions unless specified
otherwise:

**1. Please use English.**

Our community is international and English here is a standardized
language which makes easier to follow conversations.

**2. Use of Termux for digital threatening is not tolerated.**

We discourage use of Termux application as base for digital threatening,
including but not limited to hacking, phishing or spying. Even though
Termux is known to be successfully used by penetration testing
professionals, we do not provide any kind of assistance related to
potentially destructive Termux use cases. Therefore we kindly asking our
community participants to abstain from asking for help with mentioned
topics or we will have to finish your membership.

Publications violating this rule will be deleted. Users violating this
rule may receive a permanent ban.

**3. Explicitly toxic behavior, trolling and flood are not tolerated.**

Deliberate offensiveness against specific persons or whole community, as
well as any behavior aimed at disrupting conversations, is strongly
discouraged.

Publications violating this rule will be deleted. Users violating this
rule may receive a temporary or permanent ban.

**4. Our topic is Termux, its use cases, user experience and content
share.**

Our communities are solely about Termux, its use cases, usage experience
and content produced by community members.

Little off-topic is okay, but abuse of or community for gathering
knowledge about custom ROMs, custom kernels, Android OS, networking,
programming, general computer science and basics is strongly
discouraged. If you are looking for help with topic that is not directly
connected with Termux project, please consider looking into more
suitable communities and Internet resources.

You should not post any kind of information that discourage use of
Termux application and its packages in the context of advertising own or
third-party "better" utility.

Off-topic publications will be removed. Publications with inappropriate
content (nsfw, gambling, lotteries, etc) will lead to permanent ban of
their author.

**5. Avoid direct messaging to Termux maintainers.**

Please use community social media to ask questions about Termux.

Do not ask Termux developers for every single question about Termux,
especially when it comes about utility usage or how to get started. We
have community pages on various social media sites where you can ask
your questions or share some Termux-related content.

[See the available Community Pages](Community).