Image editing encompasses the processes of altering images, whether they
are digital photographs, traditional photochemical photographs, or
illustrations. Traditional analog image editing is known as photo
retouching, using tools such as an airbrush to modify photographs, or
editing illustrations with any traditional art medium. Graphic software
programs, which can be broadly grouped into vector graphics editors,
raster graphics editors, and 3D modelers, are the primary tools with
which a user may manipulate, enhance, and transform images. Many image
editing programs are also used to render or create computer art from
scratch.

## dcraw

Raw digital camera images decoding utility

Homepage: <http://www.cybercom.net/~dcoffin/dcraw/>

## gifsicle

Tool for creating, editing, and getting information about GIF images and
animations

Homepage: <https://www.lcdf.org/gifsicle/>

## gmic

Description: imageman

Homepage: <http://gmic.eu>

## graphicsmagick

Collection of image processing tools

Homepage: <http://www.graphicsmagick.org/>

## graphicsmagick++

Format-independent image processing - C++ shared library

Homepage: <http://www.graphicsmagick.org/>

## imagemagick

Suite to create, edit, compose, or convert images in a variety of
formats

Homepage: <https://www.imagemagick.org/>

## netpbm

Toolkit for manipulation of graphic images, including conversion of
images between a variety of different formats

Homepage: <http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/>

## openjpeg-tools

Command-line tools using the JPEG 2000 library

Homepage: <http://www.openjpeg.org/>

## optipng

PNG optimizer that recompresses image files to a smaller size, without
losing any information

Homepage: <http://optipng.sourceforge.net/>

## Perl

<https://duckduckgo.com/?q=perl+image+manipulation+library+cpan>

## Python

<https://duckduckgo.com/?q=python+image+library>

The Python Imaging Library adds image processing capabilities to your
Python interpreter.

This library provides extensive file format support, an efficient
internal representation, and fairly powerful image processing
capabilities.

The core image library is designed for fast access to data stored in a
few basic pixel formats. It should provide a solid foundation for a
general image processing tool.

To install Pillow Termux <code> \$ pkg install libjpeg-turbo

\$ LDFLAGS="-L/system/lib/"
CFLAGS="-I/data/data/com.termux/files/usr/include/" pip install Pillow
</code>

<https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/3.0.x/index.html>

## Ruby

<https://duckduckgo.com/?q=Ruby+image+library>