.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.TH XClearArea __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XClearArea, XClearWindow \- clear area or window
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XClearArea\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, int \fIx\fP\^,
int \fIy\fP\^, unsigned \fIwidth\fP\^, unsigned \fIheight\fP\^,
Bool \fIexposures\fP\^);
.HP
int XClearWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIexposures\fP 1i
Specifies a Boolean value that indicates if
.B Expose
events are to be generated.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window.
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify the width and height, which are the dimensions of the rectangle.
.ds Xy
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates, which are relative to the origin of the window
and specify the upper-left corner of the rectangle.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B XClearArea
function paints a rectangular area in the specified window according to the
specified dimensions with the window's background pixel or pixmap.
The subwindow-mode effectively is
.BR ClipByChildren .
If width is zero, it
is replaced with the current width of the window minus x.
If height is
zero, it is replaced with the current height of the window minus y.
If the window has a defined background tile,
the rectangle clipped by any children is filled with this tile.
If the window has
background
.BR None ,
the contents of the window are not changed.
In either
case, if exposures is
.BR True ,
one or more
.B Expose
events are generated for regions of the rectangle that are either visible or are
being retained in a backing store.
If you specify a window whose class is
.BR InputOnly ,
a
.B BadMatch
error results.
.LP
.B XClearArea
can generate
.BR BadMatch ,
.BR BadValue ,
and
.B BadWindow
errors.
.LP
The
.B XClearWindow
function clears the entire area in the specified window and is
equivalent to
.B XClearArea
(display, w, 0, 0, 0, 0,
.BR False ).
If the window has a defined background tile, the rectangle is tiled with a
plane-mask of all ones and
.B GXcopy
function.
If the window has
background
.BR None ,
the contents of the window are not changed.
If you specify a window whose class is
.BR InputOnly ,
a
.B BadMatch
error results.
.LP
.B XClearWindow
can generate
.B BadMatch
and
.B BadWindow
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.B BadMatch
An
.B InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.TP 1i
.B BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.
Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.TP 1i
.B BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCopyArea(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
