.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.TH XcmsConvertColors __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcmsConvertColors \- convert CCC color specifications
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XcmsConvertColors\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsColor
\fIcolors_in_out\fP\^[\^]\^, unsigned int \fIncolors\fP\^, XcmsColorFormat
\fItarget_format\fP\^, Bool \fIcompression_flags_return\fP\^[\^]\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIccc\fP 1i
Specifies the CCC.
If Conversion is between device-independent color spaces only
(for example, TekHVC to CIELuv),
the CCC is necessary only to specify the Client White Point.
.IP \fIcolors_in_out\fP 1i
Specifies an array of color specifications.
Pixel members are ignored and remain unchanged upon return.
.IP \fIcompression_flags_return\fP 1i
Returns an array of Boolean values indicating compression status.
If a non-NULL pointer is supplied,
each element of the array is set to
.B True
if the corresponding color was compressed and
.B False
otherwise.
Pass NULL if the compression status is not useful.
.IP \fIncolors\fP 1i
Specifies the number of
.B XcmsColor
structures in the color-specification array.
.IP \fItarget_format\fP 1i
Specifies the target color specification format.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B XcmsConvertColors
function converts the color specifications in the specified array of
.B XcmsColor
structures from their current format to a single target format,
using the specified CCC.
When the return value is
.BR XcmsFailure ,
the contents of the color specification array are left unchanged.
.LP
The array may contain a mixture of color specification formats
(for example, 3 CIE XYZ, 2 CIE Luv, and so on).
When the array contains both device-independent and
device-dependent color specifications and the target_format argument specifies
a device-dependent format (for example,
.BR XcmsRGBiFormat ,
.BR XcmsRGBFormat ),
all specifications are converted to CIE XYZ format and then to the target
device-dependent format.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DisplayOfCCC(__libmansuffix__),
XcmsCCCOfColormap(__libmansuffix__),
XcmsCreateCCC(__libmansuffix__),
XcmsDefaultCCC(__libmansuffix__),
XcmsSetWhitePoint(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
