.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.TH XCreateOC __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XCreateOC, XDestroyOC, XSetOCValues, XGetOCValues, XOMOfOC \- create output contexts
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XOC XCreateOC\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP\^, ...);
.HP
void XDestroyOC\^(\^XOC \fIoc\fP\^);
.HP
char * XSetOCValues\^(\^XOC \fIoc\fP\^, ...);
.HP
char * XGetOCValues\^(\^XOC \fIoc\fP\^, ...);
.HP
XOM XOMOfOC\^(\^XOC \fIoc\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIoc\fP 1i
Specifies the output context.
.IP \fIom\fP 1i
Specifies the output method.
.IP ... 1i
Specifies the variable length argument list to set or get XOC values.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B XCreateOC
function creates an output context within the specified output method.
.LP
The base font names argument is mandatory at creation time, and
the output context will not be created unless it is provided.
All other output context values can be set later.
.LP
.B XCreateOC
returns NULL if no output context could be created.
NULL can be returned for any of the following reasons:
.IP \(bu 5
A required argument was not set.
.IP \(bu 5
A read-only argument was set.
.IP \(bu 5
An argument name is not recognized.
.IP \(bu 5
The output method encountered an output method implementation-dependent error.
.LP
The
.B XDestroyOC
function destroys the specified output context.
.LP
The
.B XSetOCValues
function returns NULL if no error occurred;
otherwise,
it returns the name of the first argument that could not be set.
An argument might not be set for any of the following reasons:
.IP \(bu 5
The argument is read-only.
.IP \(bu 5
The argument name is not recognized.
.IP \(bu 5
An implementation-dependent error occurs.
.LP
Each value to be set must be an appropriate datum,
matching the data type imposed by the semantics of the argument.
.LP
The
.B XGetOCValues
function returns NULL if no error occurred; otherwise,
it returns the name of the first argument that could not be obtained.
An argument might not be obtained for any of the following reasons:
.IP \(bu 5
The argument name is not recognized.
.IP \(bu 5
An implementation-dependent error occurs.
.LP
Each argument value
following a name must point to a location where the value is to be stored.
.LP
The
.B XOMOfOC
function returns the output method associated with the
specified output context.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateOM(__libmansuffix__),
XCreateFontSet(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
