.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.TH XDestroyWindow __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XDestroyWindow, XDestroySubwindows \- destroy windows
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XDestroyWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^);
.HP
int XDestroySubwindows\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B XDestroyWindow
function destroys the specified window as well as all of its subwindows and causes
the X server to generate a
.B DestroyNotify
event for each window.
The window should never be referenced again.
If the window specified by the w argument is mapped,
it is unmapped automatically.
The ordering of the
.B DestroyNotify
events is such that for any given window being destroyed,
.B DestroyNotify
is generated on any inferiors of the window before being generated on
the window itself.
The ordering among siblings and across subhierarchies is not otherwise
constrained.
If the window you specified is a root window, no windows are destroyed.
Destroying a mapped window will generate
.B Expose
events on other windows that were obscured by the window being destroyed.
.LP
.B XDestroyWindow
can generate a
.B BadWindow
error.
.LP
The
.B XDestroySubwindows
function destroys all inferior windows of the specified window,
in bottom-to-top stacking order.
It causes the X server to generate a
.B DestroyNotify
event for each window.
If any mapped
subwindows were actually destroyed,
.B XDestroySubwindows
causes the X server to generate
.B Expose
events on the specified window.
This is much more efficient than deleting many windows
one at a time because much of the work need be performed only once for all
of the windows, rather than for each window.
The subwindows should never be referenced again.
.LP
.B XDestroySubwindows
can generate a
.B BadWindow
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.B BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangeWindowAttributes(__libmansuffix__),
XConfigureWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XCreateWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XMapWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XRaiseWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XUnmapWindow(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
