.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.TH XFontSetExtents __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XFontSetExtents \- XFontSetExtents structure
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.B XFontSetExtents
structure contains:
.LP
.EX
typedef struct {
        XRectangle max_ink_extent;      /\&* over all drawable characters */
        XRectangle max_logical_extent;  /\&* over all drawable characters */
} XFontSetExtents;
.EE
.LP
The
.B XRectangle
structures used to return font set metrics are the usual Xlib screen-oriented
rectangles
with x, y giving the upper left corner, and width and height always positive.
.LP
The max_ink_extent member gives the maximum extent, over all drawable characters, of
the rectangles that bound the character glyph image drawn in the
foreground color, relative to a constant origin.
See
.B XmbTextExtents
and
.B XwcTextExtents
for detailed semantics.
.LP
The max_logical_extent member gives the maximum extent,
over all drawable characters, of the rectangles
that specify minimum spacing to other graphical features,
relative to a constant origin.
Other graphical features drawn by the client, for example,
a border surrounding the text, should not intersect this rectangle.
The max_logical_extent member should be used to compute minimum
interline spacing and the minimum area that must be allowed
in a text field to draw a given number of arbitrary characters.
.LP
Due to context-dependent rendering,
appending a given character to a string may change
the string's extent by an amount other than that character's
individual extent.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateFontSet(__libmansuffix__),
XExtentsOfFontSet(__libmansuffix__),
XFontsOfFontSet(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
