.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\" Copyright \(co 2000  The XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.TH XmbTextPerCharExtents __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XmbTextPerCharExtents, XwcTextPerCharExtents, Xutf8TextPerCharExtents \- obtain per-character information for a text string
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XmbTextPerCharExtents\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^,
_Xconst char
*\fIstring\fP\^, int \fInum_bytes\fP\^, XRectangle *\fIink_array_return\fP\^,
XRectangle *\fIlogical_array_return\fP\^, int \fIarray_size\fP\^, int
*\fInum_chars_return\fP\^, XRectangle *\fIoverall_ink_return\fP\^, XRectangle
*\fIoverall_logical_return\fP\^);
.HP
Status XwcTextPerCharExtents\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^,
_Xconst wchar_t
*\fIstring\fP\^, int \fInum_wchars\fP\^, XRectangle
*\fIink_array_return\fP\^, XRectangle *\fIlogical_array_return\fP, int
\fIarray_size\fP\^, int *\fInum_chars_return\fP\^, XRectangle
*\fIoverall_ink_return\fP\^, XRectangle *\fIoverall_logical_return\fP\^);
.HP
Status Xutf8TextPerCharExtents\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^,
_Xconst char
*\fIstring\fP\^, int \fInum_bytes\fP\^, XRectangle *\fIink_array_return\fP\^,
XRectangle *\fIlogical_array_return\fP\^, int \fIarray_size\fP\^, int
*\fInum_chars_return\fP\^, XRectangle *\fIoverall_ink_return\fP\^, XRectangle
*\fIoverall_logical_return\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIarray_size\fP 1i
Specifies the size of ink_array_return and logical_array_return.
The caller must pass in arrays of this size.
.IP \fIfont_set\fP 1i
Specifies the font set.
.IP \fIink_array_return\fP 1i
Returns the ink dimensions for each character.
.IP \fIlogical_array_return\fP 1i
Returns the logical dimensions for each character.
.IP \fInum_bytes\fP 1i
Specifies the number of bytes in the string argument.
.IP \fInum_chars_return\fP 1i
Returns the number of characters in the string argument.
.IP \fInum_wchars\fP 1i
Specifies the number of characters in the string argument.
.IP \fIoverall_ink_return\fP 1i
Returns the overall ink extents of the entire string.
.IP \fIoverall_logical_return\fP 1i
Returns the overall logical extents of the entire string.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
Specifies the character string.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR XmbTextPerCharExtents ,
.B XwcTextPerCharExtents
and
.B Xutf8TextPerCharExtents
functions return the text dimensions of each character of the specified text,
using the fonts loaded for the specified font set.
Each successive element of ink_array_return and logical_array_return
is set to the successive character's drawn metrics,
relative to the drawing origin of the string and one
rectangle
for each character in the supplied text string.
The number of elements of ink_array_return and logical_array_return
that have been set is returned to num_chars_return.
.LP
Each element of ink_array_return is set to the bounding box
of the corresponding character's drawn foreground color.
Each element of logical_array_return is set to the bounding box
that provides minimum spacing to other graphical features
for the corresponding character.
Other graphical features should not intersect any of the
logical_array_return rectangles.
.LP
Note that an
.B XRectangle
represents the effective drawing dimensions of the character,
regardless of the number of font glyphs that are used to draw
the character or the direction in which the character is drawn.
If multiple characters map to a single character glyph,
the dimensions of all the
.B XRectangles
of those characters are the same.
.LP
When the
.B XFontSet
has missing charsets, metrics for each unavailable
character are taken from the default string returned by
.B XCreateFontSet
so that the metrics represent the text as it will actually be drawn.
The behavior for an invalid codepoint is undefined.
.LP
If the array_size is too small for the number of characters in the
supplied text, the functions return zero
and num_chars_return is set to the number of rectangles required.
Otherwise, the functions return a nonzero value.
.LP
If the overall_ink_return or overall_logical_return argument is non-NULL,
.BR XmbTextPerCharExtents ,
.B XwcTextPerCharExtents
and
.B Xutf8TextPerCharExtents
return the maximum extent of the string's metrics to overall_ink_return
or overall_logical_return, as returned by
.BR XmbTextExtents ,
.B XwcTextExtents
or
.BR Xutf8TextExtents .
.LP
The function
.B Xutf8TextPerCharExtents
is an extension introduced by The XFree86 Project, Inc., in their 4.0.2
release.
Its presence is
indicated by the macro
.BR X_HAVE_UTF8_STRING .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmbTextEscapement(__libmansuffix__),
XmbTextExtents(__libmansuffix__)
\fI\*(xL\fP
