.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\" Copyright \(co 2000  The XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.TH XOpenOM __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XOpenOM, XCloseOM, XSetOMValues, XGetOMValues, XDisplayOfOM, XLocaleOfOM \- open output methods
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XOM XOpenOM\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XrmDatabase \fIdb\fP\^, char
*\fIres_name\fP\^, char *\fIres_class\fP\^);
.HP
Status XCloseOM\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP\^);
.HP
char *XSetOMValues\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP, ...\^);
.HP
char *XGetOMValues\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP, ...\^);
.HP
Display *XDisplayOfOM\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP\^);
.HP
char *XLocaleOfOM\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIdb\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to the resource database.
.IP \fIres_name\fP 1i
Specifies the full resource name of the application.
.IP \fIres_class\fP 1i
Specifies the full class name of the application.
.IP \fIom\fP 1i
Specifies the output method.
.IP ... 1i
Specifies the variable length argument list to set or get XOM values.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B XOpenOM
function opens an output method
matching the current locale and modifiers specification.
The current locale and modifiers are bound to the output method
when
.B XOpenOM
is called.
The locale associated with an output method cannot be changed.
.LP
The specific output method to which this call will be routed
is identified on the basis of the current locale and modifiers.
.B XOpenOM
will identify a default output method corresponding to the
current locale.
That default can be modified using
.B XSetLocaleModifiers
to set the output method modifier.
.LP
The db argument is the resource database to be used by the output method
for looking up resources that are private to the output method.
It is not intended that this database be used to look
up values that can be set as OC values in an output context.
If db is NULL,
no database is passed to the output method.
.LP
The res_name and res_class arguments specify the resource name
and class of the application.
They are intended to be used as prefixes by the output method
when looking up resources that are common to all output contexts
that may be created for this output method.
The characters used for resource names and classes must be in the
X Portable Character Set.
The resources looked up are not fully specified
if res_name or res_class is NULL.
.LP
The res_name and res_class arguments are not assumed to exist beyond
the call to
.BR XOpenOM .
The specified resource database is assumed to exist for the lifetime
of the output method.
.LP
.B XOpenOM
returns NULL if no output method could be opened.
.LP
The
.B XCloseOM
function closes the specified output method.
.LP
The
.B XSetOMValues
function presents a variable argument list programming interface
for setting properties or features of the specified output method.
This function returns NULL if it succeeds;
otherwise,
it returns the name of the first argument that could not be set.
Xlib does not attempt to set arguments from the supplied list that
follow the failed argument;
all arguments in the list preceding the failed argument have been set
correctly.
.LP
No standard arguments are currently defined by Xlib.
.LP
The
.B XGetOMValues
function presents a variable argument list programming interface
for querying properties or features of the specified output method.
This function returns NULL if it succeeds;
otherwise,
it returns the name of the first argument that could not be obtained.
.LP
The
.B XDisplayOfOM
function returns the display associated with the specified output method.
.LP
The
.B XLocaleOfOM
returns the locale associated with the specified output method.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateOC(__libmansuffix__),
XCreateFontSet(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
