.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.TH XParseGeometry __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XParseGeometry, XWMGeometry \- parse window geometry
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XParseGeometry\^(\^_Xconst char *\fIparsestring\fP\^, int *\fIx_return\fP\^, int
*\fIy_return\fP\^, unsigned int *\fIwidth_return\fP\^, unsigned int
*\fIheight_return\fP\^);
.HP
int XWMGeometry\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int \fIscreen\fP\^, _Xconst char
*\fIuser_geom\fP\^, _Xconst char *\fIdef_geom\fP\^, unsigned int \fIbwidth\fP\^,
XSizeHints *\fIhints\fP\^, int *\fIx_return\fP, int *\fIy_return\fP\^, int
*\fIwidth_return\fP\^, int *\fIheight_return\fP\^, int
*\fIgravity_return\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIposition\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIdefault_position\fP 1i
Specify the geometry specifications.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIfheight\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIfwidth\fP 1i
Specify the font height and width in pixels (increment size).
.IP \fIparsestring\fP 1i
Specifies the string you want to parse.
.IP \fIscreen\fP 1i
Specifies the screen.
.IP \fIwidth_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight_return\fP 1i
Return the width and height determined.
.IP \fIxadder\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIyadder\fP 1i
Specify additional interior padding needed in the window.
.IP \fIx_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy_return\fP 1i
Return the x and y offsets.
.IP \fIbwidth\fP 1i
Specifies the border width.
.IP \fIhints\fP 1i
Specifies the size hints for the window in its normal state.
.IP \fIdef_geom\fP 1i
Specifies the application's default geometry or NULL.
.IP \fIgravity_return\fP 1i
Returns the window gravity.
.IP \fIuser_geom\fP 1i
Specifies the user-specified geometry or NULL.
.SH DESCRIPTION
By convention,
X applications use a standard string to indicate window size and placement.
.B XParseGeometry
makes it easier to conform to this standard because it allows you
to parse the standard window geometry.
Specifically, this function lets you parse strings of the form:
.LP
.\" Start marker code here
.EX
[=][<\fIwidth\fP>{xX}<\fIheight\fP>][{+-}<\fIxoffset\fP>{+-}<\fIyoffset\fP>]
.EE
.\" End marker code here
.LP
The fields map into the arguments associated with this function.
(Items enclosed in <\^> are integers, items in [\^] are optional, and
items enclosed in {\^} indicate \*(lqchoose one of.\*(rq
Note that the brackets should not appear in the actual string.)
If the string is not in the Host Portable Character Encoding,
the result is implementation-dependent.
.LP
The
.B XParseGeometry
function returns a bitmask that indicates which of the four values (width,
height, xoffset, and yoffset) were actually found in the string
and whether the x and y values are negative.
By convention, \-0 is not equal to +0, because the user needs to
be able to say \*(lqposition the window relative to the right or bottom edge.\*(rq
For each value found, the corresponding argument is updated.
For each value not found, the argument is left unchanged.
The bits are represented by
.BR XValue ,
.BR YValue ,
.BR WidthValue ,
.BR HeightValue ,
.BR XNegative ,
or
.B YNegative
and are defined in
.BR X11/Xutil.h .
They will be set whenever one of the values is defined
or one of the signs is set.
.LP
If the function returns either the
.B XValue
or
.B YValue
flag,
you should place the window at the requested position.
.LP
The
.B XWMGeometry
function combines any geometry information (given in the format used by
.BR XParseGeometry )
specified by the user and by the calling program with size hints
(usually the ones to be stored in WM_NORMAL_HINTS) and returns the position,
size, and gravity
.RB ( NorthWestGravity ,
.BR NorthEastGravity ,
.BR SouthEastGravity ,
or
.BR SouthWestGravity )
that describe the window.
If the base size is not set in the
.B XSizeHints
structure,
the minimum size is used if set.
Otherwise, a base size of zero is assumed.
If no minimum size is set in the hints structure,
the base size is used.
A mask (in the form returned by
.BR XParseGeometry )
that describes which values came from the user specification
and whether or not the position coordinates are relative
to the right and bottom edges is returned.
Note that these coordinates will have already been accounted for
in the x_return and y_return values.
.LP
Note that invalid geometry specifications can cause a width or height
of zero to be returned.
The caller may pass the address of the hints win_gravity field
as gravity_return to update the hints directly.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XSetWMProperties(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
