.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.TH XTranslateCoordinates __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XTranslateCoordinates \- translate window coordinates
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Bool XTranslateCoordinates\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIsrc_w\fP\^,
\fIdest_w\fP\^, int \fIsrc_x\fP\^, int \fIsrc_y\fP\^, int
*\fIdest_x_return\fP\^, int *\fIdest_y_return\fP\^, Window
*\fIchild_return\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIchild_return\fP 1i
Returns the child if the coordinates are contained in a mapped child of the
destination window.
.IP \fIdest_w\fP 1i
Specifies the destination window.
.IP \fIdest_x_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIdest_y_return\fP 1i
Return the x and y coordinates within the destination window.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIsrc_w\fP 1i
Specifies the source window.
.IP \fIsrc_x\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIsrc_y\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates within the source window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.B XTranslateCoordinates
returns
.BR True ,
it takes the src_x and src_y coordinates relative
to the source window's origin and returns these coordinates to
dest_x_return and dest_y_return
relative to the destination window's origin.
If
.B XTranslateCoordinates
returns
.BR False ,
src_w and dest_w are on different screens,
and dest_x_return and dest_y_return are zero.
If the coordinates are contained in a mapped child of dest_w,
that child is returned to child_return.
Otherwise, child_return is set to
.BR None .
.LP
.B XTranslateCoordinates
can generate a
.B BadWindow
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.B BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fI\*(xL\fP
