.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAllocIndicatorMaps __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAllocIndicatorMaps \- Allocates, directly, the 
.I indicators 
member of the keyboard description record 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbAllocIndicatorMaps
.BI "(\^variable_type *" "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I xkb
keyboard description structure
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The 
.I xkb 
parameter must point to a valid keyboard description. If it doesn't, 
.I XkbAllocIndicatorMaps 
returns a BadMatch error. Otherwise, 
.I XkbAllocIndicatorMaps 
allocates and initializes the 
.I indicators 
member of the keyboard description record and returns Success. If 
.I XkbAllocIndicatorMaps 
was unable to allocate the indicators record, it reports a BadAlloc error.
.SH RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
Success
The 
.I XkbAllocIndicatorMaps 
function returns Success if it is successful in allocating and initializing the 
.I indicators 
member of the keyboard description record.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available in the server or an argument has 
correct type and range, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
