'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbActionCtrls __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbActionCtrls \- Returns the ctrls fields of act converted to an unsigned int
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B unsigned int XkbActionCtrls
.BI "(\^XkbCtrlsAction " "act" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I act
action from which to extract controls
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Actions associated with the XkbCtrlsAction structure change the state of the 
boolean controls.

The 
.I type 
field can have any one of the values shown in Table 1.

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 Controls Action Types
_
Type	Effect
_
XkbSA_SetControls	T{
A key press enables any boolean controls specified in the ctrls fields that were 
not already enabled at 
the time of the key press.
A key release disables any controls enabled by the key press.
This action can cause XkbControlsNotify events.
T}
XkbSA_LockControls	T{
If the XkbSA_LockNoLock bit is not set in the flags field, a key press enables 
any controls specified in 
the ctrls fields that were not already enabled at the time of the key press.
.br
If the XkbSA_LockNoUnlock bit is not set in the flags field, a key release 
disables any controls 
specified in the ctrls fields that were not already disabled at the time of the 
key press.
.br
This action can cause XkbControlsNotify events.
T}
.TE

The 
.I flags 
field is composed of the bitwise inclusive OR of the masks shown in Table 2.

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 2 Control Action Flags
_
Flag	Meaning
_
XkbSA_LockNoLock	T{
If set, and the action type is XkbSA_LockControls, the server only disables 
controls.
T}
XkbSA_LockNoUnlock	T{
If set, and the action type is XkbSA_LockControls, the server only enables 
controls.
T}
.TE

The XkbSA_SetControls action implements a key that enables a boolean control 
when pressed and disables it 
when released. The XkbSA_LockControls action is used to implement a key that 
toggles the state of a 
boolean control each time it is pressed and released. The XkbSA_LockNoLock and 
XkbSA_LockNoUnlock flags 
allow modifying the toggling behavior to only unlock or only lock the boolean 
control.

The 
.I ctrls0, ctrls1, ctrls2, 
and 
.I ctrls3 
fields represent the boolean controls in the 
.I enabled_ctrls 
field of the controls structure. Xkb macros, to convert between the two formats.

.I XkbActionCtrls 
returns the 
.I ctrls 
fields of 
.I act 
converted to an unsigned int.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbCtrlsAction {
        unsigned char    type;    /\&* XkbSA_SetControls, XkbSA_LockControls */
        unsigned char    flags;   /\&* with type, controls enabling and disabling of controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls3;  /\&* ctrls0 through ctrls3 represent the boolean controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls2;  /\&* ctrls0 through ctrls3 represent the boolean controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls1;  /\&* ctrls0 through ctrls3 represent the boolean controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls0;  /\&* ctrls0 through ctrls3 represent the boolean controls */
    } XkbCtrlsAction;
.fi
