.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAddGeomOverlay __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddGeomOverlay \- Add one overlay to a section
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbOverlayPtr XkbAddGeomOverlay
.BI "(\^XkbSectionPtr " "section" "\^,"
.BI "Atom " "name" "\^,"
.BI "int " "sz_rows" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I section
section to which an overlay will be added
.TP
.I name
name of the overlay
.TP
.I sz_rows
number of rows to reserve in the overlay
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb provides functions to add a single new element to the top-level keyboard 
geometry. In each case the 
.I num_ * 
fields of the corresponding structure is incremented by 1. These functions do 
not change 
.I sz_* 
unless there is no more room in the array. Some of these functions fill in the 
values of the element's structure from the arguments. For other functions, you 
must explicitly write code to fill the structure's elements.

The top-level geometry description includes a list of 
.I geometry properties. 
A geometry property associates an arbitrary string with an equally arbitrary 
name. Programs that display images of keyboards can use geometry properties as 
hints, but they are not interpreted by Xkb. No other geometry structures refer 
to geometry properties.

.I XkbAddGeomOverlay 
adds an overlay with the specified name to the specified 
.I section. 
The new overlay is created with space allocated for 
.I sz_rows 
rows. If an overlay with name 
.I name 
already exists in the section, a pointer to the existing overlay is returned.
.I XkbAddGeomOverlay 
returns NULL if any of the parameters is empty or if it was not able to allocate 
space for the overlay. To allocate space for an arbitrary number of overlays to 
a section, use the 
.I XkbAllocGeomOverlay 
function.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbOverlayRec {
        Atom                  name;            /\&* overlay name */
        XkbSectionPtr         section_under;   /\&* the section under this overlay */
        unsigned short        num_rows;        /\&* number of rows in the rows array */
        unsigned short        sz_rows;         /\&* size of the rows array */
        XkbOverlayRowPtr      rows;            /\&* array of rows in the overlay */
        XkbBoundsPtr          bounds;          /\&* bounding box for the overlay */
    } XkbOverlayRec,*XkbOverlayPtr;
    
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocGeomOverlay (__libmansuffix__)
