'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAllocClientMap __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAllocClientMap \- Allocate and initialize an empty client map description 
record
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbAllocClientMap
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "type_count" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I xkb
keyboard description in which to allocate client map
.TP
.I which
mask selecting map components to allocate
.TP
.I type_count
value of num_types field in map to be allocated 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Calling 
.I XkbGetMap 
should be sufficient for most applications to get client and server maps. As a 
result, most applications do not need to directly allocate client and server 
maps.

If you change the number of key types or construct map components without 
loading the necessary components from the X server, do not allocate any map 
components directly using 
.I malloc 
or 
.I Xmalloc. 
Instead, use the Xkb allocators, 
.I XkbAllocClientMap, 
and 
.I XkbAllocServerMap.

Similarly, use the Xkb destructors, 
.I XkbFreeClientMap, 
and 
.I XkbFreeServerMap 
instead of 
.I free 
or 
.I Xfree.

.I XkbAllocClientMap 
allocates and initializes an empty client map in the 
.I map 
field of the keyboard description specified by 
.I xkb. 
The 
.I which 
parameter specifies the particular components of the client map structure to 
allocate and is a mask composed by a bitwise inclusive OR of one or more of the 
masks shown in Table 1.
.bp
.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 XkbAllocClientMap Masks
_
Mask	Effect
_
XkbKeyTypesMask	T{
The type_count field specifies the number of entries to preallocate for the 
types field of the client map. If the type_count field is less than 
XkbNumRequiredTypes returns BadValue.
T}
.sp
XkbKeySymsMask	T{
The min_key_code and max_key_code fields of the xkb parameter are used to 
allocate the syms and key_sym_map fields of the client map. The fields are 
allocated to contain the maximum number of entries necessary for max_key_code - 
min_key_code + 1 keys.
T}
.sp
XkbModifierMapMask	T{
The min_key_code and max_key_code fields of the xkb parameter are used to 
allocate the modmap field of the client map. The field is allocated to contain 
the maximum number of entries necessary for max_key_code - min_key_code + 1 
keys.
T}
.TE

NOTE: The 
.I min_key_code 
and 
.I max_key_code 
fields of the 
.I xkb 
parameter must be legal values if the XkbKeySymsMask or XkbModifierMapMask masks 
are set in the 
.I which 
parameter. If they are not valid, 
.I XkbAllocClientMap 
returns BadValue. 

If the client map of the keyboard description is not NULL, and any fields are 
already allocated in the client map, 
.I XkbAllocClientMap 
does not overwrite the existing values; it simply ignores that part of the 
request. The only exception is the 
.I types 
array. If 
.I type_count 
is greater than the current 
.I num_types 
field of the client map, 
.I XkbAllocClientMap 
resizes the 
.I types 
array and resets the 
.I num_types 
field accordingly.

If 
.I XkbAllocClientMap 
is successful, it returns Success. Otherwise, it can return either BadMatch, 
BadAlloc, or BadValue errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available in the server or an argument has 
correct type and range, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is out of range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocClientMap (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbAllocServerMap (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbFreeClientMap, (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbFreeServerMap (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbGetMap (__libmansuffix__)
