.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAddGeomSection __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddGeomSection \- Add one section to an existing keyboard geometry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbSectionPtr XkbAddGeomSection
.BI "(\^XkbGeometryPtr " "geom" "\^,"
.BI "Atom " "name" "\^,"
.BI "int " "sz_rows" "\^,"
.BI "int " "sz_doodads" "\^,"
.BI "int " "sz_overlays" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I geom
geometry to be updated
.TP
.I name
name of the new section
.TP
.I sz_rows
number of rows to reserve in the section
.TP
.I sz_doodads
number of doodads to reserve in the section
.TP
.I sz_overlays
number of overlays to reserve in the section
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb provides functions to add a single new element to the top-level keyboard 
geometry. In each case the 
.I num_ * 
fields of the corresponding structure is incremented by 1. These functions do 
not change 
.I sz_* 
unless there is no more room in the array. Some of these functions fill in the 
values of the element's structure from the arguments. For other functions, you 
must explicitly write code to fill the structure's elements.

The top-level geometry description includes a list of 
.I geometry properties. 
A geometry property associates an arbitrary string with an equally arbitrary 
name. Programs that display images of keyboards can use geometry properties as 
hints, but they are not interpreted by Xkb. No other geometry structures refer 
to geometry properties.

A keyboard geometry contains an arbitrary number of sections. 
.I XkbAddGeomSection 
adds one section to an existing keyboard geometry 
.I geom. 
The new section contains space for the number of rows, doodads, and overlays 
specified by 
.I sz_rows, sz_doodads, 
and 
.I sz_overlays. 
The new section is allocated and zeroed and given the name specified by 
.I name. 
If a section with name 
.I name 
already exists in the geometry, a pointer to the existing section is returned.
.I XkbAddGeomSection 
returns NULL if any of the parameters is empty or if it was not able to allocate 
space for the section. To allocate space for an arbitrary number of sections to 
a geometry, use 
.I XkbAllocGeomSections.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

typedef struct _XkbSection {
    Atom                    name;        /\&* section name */
    unsigned char           priority;    /\&* drawing priority, 0=>highest, 255=>lowest */
    short                   top;         /\&* top coordinate of section origin */
    short                   left;        /\&* left coordinate of row origin */
    unsigned short          width;       /\&* section width, in mm/10 */
    unsigned short          height;      /\&* section height, in mm/10 */
    short                   angle;       /\&* angle of section rotation, counterclockwise */
    unsigned short          num_rows;    /\&* number of rows in the rows array */
    unsigned short          num_doodads; /\&* number of doodads in the doodads array */
    unsigned short          num_overlays; /\&* number of overlays in the overlays array */
    unsigned short          sz_rows;      /\&* size of the rows array */
    unsigned short          sz_doodads;   /\&* size of the doodads array */
    unsigned short          sz_overlays;  /\&* size of the overlays array */
    XkbRowPtr               rows;         /\&* section rows array */
    XkbDoodadPtr            doodads;      /\&* section doodads array */
    XkbBoundsRec            bounds;       /\&* bounding box for the section, before rotation*/
    XkbOverlayPtr           overlays;     /\&* section overlays array */
} XkbSectionRec, *XkbSectionPtr;

.fi
.I top 
and 
.I left 
are the origin of the section, relative to the origin of the keyboard, in mm/10. angle is in 1/10 degrees.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocGeomSections (__libmansuffix__)
