.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAddGeomOutline __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddGeomOutline \- Add one outline to an existing shape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbOutlinePtr XkbAddGeomOutline
.BI "(\^XkbShapePtr " "shape" "\^,"
.BI "int " "sz_points" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I shape
shape to be updated
.TP
.I sz_points
number of points to be reserved
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb provides functions to add a single new element to the top-level keyboard 
geometry. In each case the 
.I num_ * 
fields of the corresponding structure is incremented by 1. These functions do 
not change 
.I sz_* 
unless there is no more room in the array. Some of these functions fill in the 
values of the element's structure from the arguments. For other functions, you 
must explicitly write code to fill the structure's elements.

The top-level geometry description includes a list of 
.I geometry properties. 
A geometry property associates an arbitrary string with an equally arbitrary 
name. Programs that display images of keyboards can use geometry properties as 
hints, but they are not interpreted by Xkb. No other geometry structures refer 
to geometry properties.

An outline consists of an arbitrary number of points. 
.I XkbAddGeomOutline 
adds an outline to the specified 
.I shape 
by reserving 
.I sz_points 
points for it. The new outline is allocated and zeroed. 
.I XkbAddGeomOutline 
returns NULL if any of the parameters is empty or if it was not able to allocate 
space. To allocate space for an arbitrary number of outlines to a shape, use
.I XkbAllocGeomOutlines.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbOutline {
        unsigned short    num_points;      /\&* number of points in the outline */
        unsigned short    sz_points;       /\&* size of the points array */
        unsigned short    corner_radius;   /\&* draw corners as circles with this radius */
        XkbPointPtr       points;          /\&* array of points defining the outline */
    } XkbOutlineRec, *XkbOutlinePtr;
    
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocGeomOutlines (__libmansuffix__)
