'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAllocServerMap __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAllocServerMap \- Allocate and initialize an empty server map description record
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbAllocServerMap
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "count_acts" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I xkb
keyboard description in which to allocate server map
.TP
.I which
mask selecting map components to allocate
.TP
.I count_acts
value of num_acts field in map to be allocated
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbAllocServerMap 
allocates and initializes an empty server map in the 
.I server 
field of the keyboard description specified by 
.I xkb. 
The 
.I which 
parameter specifies the particular components of the server map structure to allocate, as specified in Table 1. 

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 XkbAllocServerMap Masks
_
Mask	Effect
_
XkbExplicitComponentsMask	T{
The min_key_code and max_key_code fields of the xkb parameter are used to
allocate the explicit field of the server map.
T}
.sp
XkbKeyActionsMask	T{
The min_key_code and max_key_code fields of the xkb parameter are used to allocate the key_acts field of the server map. The count_acts parameter is used to allocate the acts field of the server map.
T}
.sp
XkbKeyBehaviorsMask	T{
The min_key_code and max_key_code fields of the xkb parameter are used to allocate the behaviors field of the server map.
T}
.sp
XkbVirtualModMapMask	T{
The min_key_code and max_key_code fields of the xkb parameter are used to allocate the vmodmap field of the server map.
T}

.TE

If the server map of the keyboard description is not NULL and any fields are already allocated in the server map, 
.I XkbAllocServerMap 
does not overwrite the existing values. The only exception is with the 
.I acts 
array. If the 
.I count_acts 
parameter is greater than the current 
.I num_acts 
field of the server map, 
.I XkbAllocServerMap 
resizes the 
.I acts 
array and resets the 
.I num_acts 
field accordingly.

If 
.I XkbAllocServerMap 
is successful, it returns Success. Otherwise, it can return either BadMatch or BadAlloc errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available in the server or an argument has correct type and range, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is out of range
.SH NOTES
.LP
The 
.I min_key_code 
and 
.I max_key_code 
fields of the 
.I xkb 
parameter must be legal values. If they are not valid, 
.I XkbAllocServerMap 
returns BadValue. 
