'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbApplyCompatMapToKey __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbApplyCompatMapToKey \- Apply the new compatibility mapping to an individual 
key to get its semantics updated
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbApplyCompatMapToKey
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "KeyCode " "key" "\^,"
.BI "XkbChangesPtr " "changes" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I xkb
keyboard description to be updated
.TP
.I key
key to be updated
.TP
.I changes
notes changes to the Xkb keyboard description
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbApplyCompatMapToKey 
essentially performs the operation described in Core Keyboard Mapping to Xkb 
Keyboard Mapping Transformation to a specific key. This updates the behavior, 
actions, repeat status, and virtual modifier bindings of the key.

.B Core Keyboard Mapping to Xkb Keyboard Mapping Transformation

When a core protocol keyboard mapping request is received by the server, the 
server's core keyboard map is updated, and then the Xkb map maintained by the 
server is updated. Because a client may have explicitly configured some of the 
Xkb keyboard mapping in the server, this automatic regeneration of the Xkb 
keyboard mapping from the core protocol keyboard mapping should not modify any 
components of the Xkb keyboard mapping that were explicitly set by a client. The 
client must set explicit override controls to prevent this from happening (see 
Explicit Components-Avoiding Automatic Remapping by the Server). The core-to-Xkb 
mapping is done as follows:

.B Explicit Components-Avoiding Automatic Remapping by the Server

Whenever a client remaps the keyboard using core protocol requests, Xkb examines 
the map to determine likely default values for the components that cannot be 
specified using the core protocol.

This automatic remapping might replace definitions explicitly requested by an 
application, so the Xkb keyboard description defines an explicit components mask 
for each key. Any aspects of the automatic remapping listed in the explicit 
components mask for a key are not changed by the automatic keyboard mapping. 

The explicit components masks are held in the 
.I explicit 
field of the server map, which is an array indexed by keycode. Each entry in 
this array is a mask that is a bitwise inclusive OR of the values shown in Table 
1.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l lw(3i).
Table 1 Explicit Component Masks
_
Bit in Explicit Mask	Value	Protects Against
_
ExplicitKeyType1	(1<<0)	T{
Automatic determination of the key type associated with Group1.
T}
ExplicitKeyType2	(1<<1)	T{
Automatic determination of the key type associated with Group2.
T}
ExplicitKeyType3	(1<<2)	T{
Automatic determination of the key type associated with Group3.
T}
ExplicitKeyType4	(1<<3)	T{
Automatic determination of the key type associated with Group4.
T}
ExplicitInterpret	(1<<4)	T{
Application of any of the fields of a symbol interpretation to the key in 
question.
T}
ExplicitAutoRepeat	(1<<5)	T{
Automatic determination of auto-repeat status for the key, as specified in a 
symbol interpretation.
T}
ExplicitBehavior	(1<<6)	T{
Automatic assignment of the XkbKB_Lock behavior to the key, if the 
XkbSI_LockingKey flag is set in a symbol interpretation.
T}
ExplicitVModMap	(1<<7)	T{
Automatic determination of the virtual modifier map for the key based on the 
actions assigned to the key and the symbol interpretations that match the key.
T}
.TE
.TP 4
1.
Map the symbols from the keys in the core keyboard map to groups and symbols on 
keys in the Xkb keyboard map. The core keyboard mapping is of fixed width, so 
each key in the core mapping has the same number of symbols associated with it. 
The Xkb mapping allows a different number of symbols to be associated with each 
key; those symbols may be divided into a different number of groups (1-4) for 
each key. For each key, this process therefore involves partitioning the fixed 
number of symbols from the core mapping into a set of variable-length groups 
with a variable number of symbols in each group. For example, if the core 
protocol map is of width five, the partition for one key might result in one 
group with two symbols and another with three symbols. A different key might 
result in two groups with two symbols plus a third group with one symbol. The 
core protocol map requires at least two symbols in each of the first two groups.
.TP 4
1a.
For each changed key, determine the number of groups represented in the new core 
keyboard map. This results in a tentative group count for each key in the Xkb 
map.
.TP 4
1b.
For each changed key, determine the number of symbols in each of the groups 
found in step 1a. There is one explicit override control associated with each of 
the four possible groups for each Xkb key, ExplicitKeyType1 through 
ExplicitKeyType4. If no explicit override control is set for a group, the number 
of symbols used for that group from the core map is two.  If the explicit 
override control is set for a group on the key, the number of symbols used for 
that Xkb group from the core map is the width of the Xkb group with one 
exception: because of the core protocol requirement for at least two symbols in 
each of groups one and two, the number of symbols used for groups one and two is 
the maximum of 2 or the width of the Xkb group.
.TP 4
1c.
For each changed key, assign the symbols in the core map to the appropriate 
group on the key. If the total number of symbols required by the Xkb map for a 
particular key needs more symbols than the core protocol map contains, the 
additional symbols are taken to be NoSymbol keysyms appended to the end of the 
core set. If the core map contains more symbols than are needed by the Xkb map, 
trailing symbols in the core map are discarded. In the absence of an explicit 
override for group one or two, symbols are assigned in order by group; the first 
symbols in the core map are assigned to group one, in order, followed by group 
two, and so on. For example, if the core map contained eight symbols per key, 
and a particular Xkb map contained 2 symbols for G1 and G2 and three for G3, the 
symbols would be assigned as (G is group, L is shift level):
.nf

              G1L1 G1L2 G2L1 G2L2 G3L1 G3L2 G3L3
                    
.fi                    
If an explicit override control is set for group one or two, the symbols are 
taken from the core set in a somewhat different order. The first four symbols 
from the core set are assigned to G1L1, G1L2, G2L1, G2L2, respectively. If group 
one requires more symbols, they are taken next, and then any additional symbols 
needed by group two. Group three and four symbols are taken in complete sequence 
after group two. For example, a key with four groups and three symbols in each 
group would take symbols from the core set in the following order:
.nf

   G1L1 G1L2 G2L1 G2L2 G1L3 G2L3 G3L1 G3L2 G3L3 G4L1 G4L2 G4L3
         
.fi         
As previously noted, the core protocol map requires at lease two symbols in 
groups one and two. Because of this, if an explicit override control for an Xkb 
key is set and group one and / or group two is of width one, it is not possible 
to generate the symbols taken from the core protocol set and assigned to 
position G1L2 and / or G2L2.
.TP 4
1d.
For each group on each changed key, assign a key type appropriate for the 
symbols in the group.
.TP 4
1e.
For each changed key, remove any empty or redundant groups.

At this point, the groups and their associated symbols have been assigned to the 
corresponding key definitions in the Xkb map.
.TP 4
2.
Apply symbol interpretations to modify key operation. This phase is completely 
skipped if the  ExplicitInterpret override control bit is set in the explicit 
controls mask for the Xkb key (see Explicit Components-Avoiding Automatic 
Remapping by the Server).
.TP 4
2a.
For each symbol on each changed key, attempt to match the symbol and modifiers 
from the Xkb map to a symbol interpretation describing how to generate the 
symbol.
.TP 4
2b.
When a match is found in step 2a, apply the symbol interpretation to change the 
semantics associated with the symbol in the Xkb key map. If no match is found, 
apply a default interpretation.
.LP
The symbol interpretations used in step 2 are configurable and may be specified 
using XkbSymInterpretRec structures referenced by the sym_interpret field of an 
XkbCompatMapRec.

.B Symbol Interpretations - the XkbSymInterpretRec Structure

Symbol interpretations are used to guide the X server when it modifies the Xkb 
keymap in step 2. An initial set of symbol interpretations is loaded by the 
server when it starts. A client may add new ones using XkbSetCompatMap.

Symbol interpretations result in key semantics being set. When a symbol 
interpretation is applied, the following components of server key event 
processing may be modified for the particular key involved:
.nf

    Virtual modifier map
    Auto repeat
    Key behavior (may be set to XkbKB_Lock)
    Key action
            
.fi            
The XkbSymInterpretRec structure specifies a symbol interpretation:
.nf
 
typedef struct {
    KeySym        sym;         /\&* keysym of interest or NULL */
    unsigned char flags;       /\&* XkbSI_AutoRepeat, XkbSI_LockingKey */
    unsigned char match;       /\&* specifies how mods is interpreted */
    unsigned char mods;        /\&* modifier bits, correspond to eight real modifiers */
    unsigned char virtual_mod; /\&* 1 modifier to add to key virtual mod map */
    XkbAnyAction  act;         /\&* action to bind to symbol position on key */
} XkbSymInterpretRec,*XkbSymInterpretPtr;
    
.fi    
If sym is not NULL, it limits the symbol interpretation to keys on which that 
particular keysym is selected by the modifiers matching the criteria specified 
by 
.I mods 
and 
.I match. 
If 
.I sym 
is NULL, the interpretation may be applied to any symbol selected on a key when 
the modifiers match the criteria specified by 
.I mods 
and 
.I match.

.I match 
must be one of the values shown in Table 2 and specifies how the real modifiers 
specified in 
.I mods 
are to be interpreted.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l lw(3i).
Table 2 Symbol Interpretation Match Criteria
_
Match Criteria	Value	Effect
_
XkbSI_NoneOf	(0)	T{
None of the bits that are on in mods can be set, but other bits can be.
T}
XkbSI_AnyOfOrNone	(1)	T{
Zero or more of the bits that are on in mods can be set, as well as others.
T}
XkbSI_AnyOf	(2)	T{
One or more of the bits that are on in mods can be set, as well as any others.
T}
XkbSI_AllOf	(3)	T{
All of the bits that are on in mods must be set, but others may be set as well.
T}
XkbSI_Exactly	(4)	T{
All of the bits that are on in mods must be set, and no other bits may be set.
T}
.TE

In addition to the above bits, 
.I match 
may contain the XkbSI_LevelOneOnly bit, in which case the modifier match 
criteria specified by 
.I mods 
and 
.I match 
applies only if 
.I sym 
is in level one of its group; otherwise, 
.I mods 
and 
.I match 
are ignored and the symbol matches a condition where no modifiers are set.
.nf

\&#define XkbSI_LevelOneOnly  (0x80)  /\&* use mods + match only if sym is level 1 */
    
.fi    
If no matching symbol interpretation is found, the server uses a default 
interpretation where:
.nf

    sym =           0
    flags =         XkbSI_AutoRepeat
    match =         XkbSI_AnyOfOrNone
    mods =          0
    virtual_mod =   XkbNoModifier
    act =           SA_NoAction
    
.fi    
When a matching symbol interpretation is found in step 2a, the interpretation is 
applied to modify the Xkb map as follows.

The 
.I act 
field specifies a single action to be bound to the symbol position; any key event that selects the symbol 
causes the action to be taken. Valid actions are defined in Key Actions.

If the Xkb keyboard map for the key does not have its ExplicitVModMap control set, the XkbSI_LevelOneOnly bit 
and symbol position are examined. If the XkbSI_LevelOneOnly bit is not set in
.I match 
or the symbol is in position G1L1, the 
.I virtual_mod 
field is examined. If 
.I virtual_mod 
is not XkbNoModifier, 
.I virtual_mod 
specifies a single virtual modifier to be added to the virtual modifier map for the key. 
.I virtual_mod 
is specified as an index in the range [0..15]. 

If the matching symbol is in position G1L1 of the key, two bits in the flags field potentially specify 
additional behavior modifications:
.nf

\&#define  XkbSI_AutoRepeat  (1<<0)  /\&* key repeats if sym is in position G1L1 */
\&#define  XkbSI_LockingKey  (1<<1)  /\&* set KB_Lock behavior if sym is in psn G1L1 */
    
.fi
If the Xkb keyboard map for the key does not have its ExplicitAutoRepeat control set, its auto repeat behavior 
is set based on the value of the XkbSI_AutoRepeat bit. If the XkbSI_AutoRepeat bit is set, the auto-repeat 
behavior of the key is turned on; otherwise, it is turned off.

If the Xkb keyboard map for the key does not have its ExplicitBehavior control set, its locking behavior is 
set based on the value of the XkbSI_LockingKey bit. If XkbSI_LockingKey is set, the key behavior is set to 
KB_Lock; otherwise, it is turned off.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbKeyAction (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbKeyActionEntry (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbKeyActionsPtr (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbKeyHasActions (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbKeyNumActions (__libmansuffix__)
