.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbComputeShapeTop __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbComputeShapeTop \- Determines the bounding box of the top surface of a shape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbComputeShapeTop
.BI "(\^XkbShapePtr " "shape" "\^,"
.BI "XkbBoundsPtr " "bounds_rtrn" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I shape
shape to be examined
.TP
.I bounds_rtrn
backfilled with the bounding box for the shape
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb provides a number of convenience functions to help use a keyboard geometry. 
These include functions to return the bounding box of a shape's top surface and 
to update the bounding box of a shape row or section.

A shape is made up of a number of outlines. Each outline is a polygon made up of 
a number of points. The bounding box of a shape is a rectangle that contains all 
the outlines of that shape. 

.I XkbComputeShapeTop 
returns a BoundsRec that contains two x and y coordinates. These coordinates
describe the corners of a rectangle that contains the outline that describes the 
top surface of the shape. The top surface is defined to be the approximating 
outline if the 
.I approx 
field of 
.I shape 
is not NULL. If 
.I approx 
is NULL, the top surface is defined as the last outline in the 
.I shape's 
array of outlines. 
.I XkbComputeShapeTop 
returns False if 
.I shape 
is NULL or if there are no outlines for the shape; otherwise, it returns True.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

typedef struct _XkbBounds {
	short	x1,y1;	/\&* upper left corner of the bounds, in mm/10 */
	short	x2,y2;	/\&* lower right corner of the bounds, in mm/10 */
} XkbBoundsRec, *XkbBoundsPtr;

.fi
