.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetKeyActions __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetKeyActions \- Update the actions (the key_acts array) for a subset of the 
keys in a keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetKeyActions
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "first" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection to X server
.TP
.I first
keycode of first key of interest
.TP
.I num
number of keys desired
.TP
.I xkb
pointer to keyboard description where result is stored
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
sends a request to the server to obtain the actions for 
.I num 
keys on the keyboard starting with key 
.I first. 
It waits for a reply and returns the actions in the 
.I server->key_acts 
field of 
.I xkb. 
If successful, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns Success. The 
.I xkb 
parameter must be a pointer to a valid Xkb keyboard description.

If the 
.I server 
map, in the 
.I xkb 
parameter, has not been allocated, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
allocates and initializes it before obtaining the actions.

If the server does not have a compatible version of Xkb, or the Xkb extension 
has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns BadAccess. If 
.I num 
is less than 1 or greater than XkbMaxKeyCount, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns BadValue. If any allocation errors occur, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns BadAlloc. 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAccess
The Xkb extension has not been properly initialized
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is out of range
