'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetDeviceInfo __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetDeviceInfo \- Determine whether the X server allows Xkb access to particular capabilities of input devices other than 
the core X keyboard, or to determine the status of indicator maps, indicator names or button actions on a non-KeyClass 
extension device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbDeviceInfoPtr XkbGetDeviceInfo
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "device_spec" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "ind_class" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "ind_id" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection to X server
.TP
.I which
mask indicating information to return
.TP
.I device_spec
device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I ind_class
feedback class for indicator requests
.TP
.I ind_id
feedback ID for indicator requests
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
To determine whether the X server allows Xkb access to particular capabilities of input devices other than the core X 
keyboard, or to determine the status of indicator maps, indicator names or button actions on a non-KeyClass extension 
device, use 
.I XkbGetDeviceInfo. 

.I XkbGetDeviceInfo 
returns information about the input device specified by 
.I device_spec. 
Unlike the 
.I device_spec 
parameter of most Xkb functions, 
.I device_spec 
does not need to be a keyboard device. It must, however, indicate either the core keyboard or a valid X Input Extension 
device. 

The 
.I which 
parameter is a mask specifying optional information to be returned. It is an inclusive OR of one or more of the values from 
Table 1 and causes the returned XkbDeviceInfoRec to contain values for the corresponding fields specified in the table.

.nf
                         Table 1 XkbDeviceInfoRec Mask Bits                        
____________________________________________________________________________________
Name                         XkbDeviceInfoRec Value     Capability If Set
                             Fields Effected            
____________________________________________________________________________________
XkbXI_KeyboardsMask                           (1L <<0) Clients can use all
                                                       Xkb requests and events
                                                       with KeyClass devices 
                                                       supported by the input
                                                       device extension.

XkbXI_ButtonActionsMask       num_btns        (1L <<1) Clients can assign key 
                              btn_acts                 actions to buttons 
                                                       non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.
                           
XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask      leds->names     (1L <<2) Clients can assign
                                                       names to indicators on
                                                       non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.
                                                             
XkbXI_IndicatorMapsMask       leds->maps      (1L <<3) Clients can assign
                                                       indicator maps to
                                                       indicators on 
                                                       non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.

XkbXI_IndicatorStateMask      leds->state     (1L <<4) Clients can request 
                                                       the status of indicators
                                                       on non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.

XkbXI_IndicatorsMask          sz_leds         (0x1c)   XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask |
                              num_leds                 XkbXI_IndicatorMapsMask |
                              leds->*                  XkbXI_IndicatorStateMask

XkbXI_UnsupportedFeaturesMask unsupported     (1L <<15)

XkbXI_AllDeviceFeaturesMask   Those selected  (0x1e)   XkbXI_IndicatorsMask |
                              by Value Column          XkbSI_ButtonActionsMask
                              masks 

XkbXI_AllFeaturesMask         Those selected  (0x1f)   XkbSI_AllDeviceFeaturesMask |
                              by Value Column          XkbSI_KeyboardsMask
                              masks

XkbXI_AllDetailsMask          Those selected  (0x801f) XkbXI_AllFeaturesMask |
                              by Value column          XkbXI_UnsupportedFeaturesMask
                              masks
.fi

The XkbDeviceInfoRec returned by 
.I XkbGetDeviceInfo 
always has values for 
.I name 
(may be a null string, ""), 
.I type, supported, unsupported, has_own_state, dflt_kbd_fd, 
and 
.I dflt_kbd_fb. 
Other fields are filled in as specified by 
.I which.

Upon return, the 
.I supported 
field will be set to the inclusive OR of zero or more bits from Table 1; each bit set indicates an optional Xkb extension 
device feature supported by the server implementation, and a client may modify the associated behavior.

If the XkbButtonActionsMask bit is set in 
.I which, 
the XkbDeviceInfoRec returned will have the button actions 
.I (btn_acts 
field) filled in for all buttons.

If 
.I which 
includes one of the bits in XkbXI_IndicatorsMask, the feedback class of the indicators must be specified in
.I ind_class, 
and the feedback ID of the indicators must be specified in 
.I ind_id. 
If the request does not include any of the bits in XkbXI_IndicatorsMask, the 
.I ind_class 
and 
.I ind_id 
parameters are ignored. The class and ID can be obtained via the input device extension 
.I XListInputDevices 
request. 

If any of the XkbXI_IndicatorsMask bits are set in 
.I which, 
the XkbDeviceInfoRec returned will have filled in the portions of the 
.I leds 
structure corresponding to the indicator feedback identified by 
.I ind_class 
and 
.I ind_id. 
The 
.I leds 
vector of the XkbDeviceInfoRec is allocated if necessary and 
.I sz_leds 
and 
.I num_leds 
filled in. The 
.I led_class, led_id 
and 
.I phys_indicators 
fields of the 
.I leds 
entry corresponding to 
.I ind_class 
and 
.I ind_id 
are always filled in. If 
.I which 
contains XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask, the 
.I names_present 
and 
.I names 
fields of the 
.I leds 
structure corresponding to 
.I ind_class 
and 
.I ind_id 
are returned. If 
.I which 
contains XkbXI_IndicatorStateMask, the corresponding 
.I state 
field is updated. If 
.I which 
contains XkbXI_IndicatorMapsMask, the 
.I maps_present 
and 
.I maps 
fields are updated.

Xkb provides convenience functions to request subsets of the information available via 
.I XkbGetDeviceInfo. 
These convenience functions mirror some of the mask bits. The functions all take an XkbDeviceInfoPtr as an input argument 
and operate on the X Input Extension device specified by the 
.I device_spec 
field of the structure. Only the parts of the structure indicated in the function description are updated. The 
XkbDeviceInfoRec structure used in the function call can be obtained by calling 
.I XkbGetDeviceInfo 
or can be allocated by calling 
.I XkbAllocDeviceInfo.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
Information about X Input Extension devices is transferred between a client program and the Xkb extension in an 
XkbDeviceInfoRec structure:
.nf

typedef struct {
    char *               name;          /\&* name for device */
    Atom                 type;          /\&* name for class of devices */
    unsigned short       device_spec;   /\&* device of interest */
    Bool                 has_own_state; /\&* True=>this device has its own state */
    unsigned short       supported;     /\&* bits indicating supported capabilities */
    unsigned short       unsupported;   /\&* bits indicating unsupported capabilities */
    unsigned short       num_btns;      /\&* number of entries in btn_acts */
    XkbAction *          btn_acts;      /\&* button actions */
    unsigned short       sz_leds;       /\&* total number of entries in LEDs vector */
    unsigned short       num_leds;      /\&* number of valid entries in LEDs vector */
    unsigned short       dflt_kbd_fb;   /\&* input extension ID of default (core kbd) indicator */
    unsigned short       dflt_led_fb;   /\&* input extension ID of default indicator feedback */
    XkbDeviceLedInfoPtr  leds;          /\&* LED descriptions */
} XkbDeviceInfoRec, *XkbDeviceInfoPtr;
    
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocDeviceInfo (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XListInputDevices (__libmansuffix__)
