.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2017, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetNamedIndicator __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetNamedIndicator \- Look up the indicator map and other information for an 
indicator by name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbGetNamedDeviceIndicator
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "dev_spec" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "led_class" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "led_id" "\^,"
.BI "Atom " "name" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "ndx_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "Bool *" "state_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "XkbIndicatorMapPtr " "map_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "Bool *" "real_rtrn" "\^);"
.HP
.B Bool XkbGetNamedIndicator
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "Atom " "name" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "ndx_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "Bool *" "state_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "XkbIndicatorMapPtr " "map_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "Bool *" "real_rtrn" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection to the X server 
.TP
.I dev_spec
keyboard device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I led_class
feedback class, or XkbDfltXIClass
.TP
.I led_id
feedback ID, or XkbDfltXIId
.TP
.I name
name of the indicator to be retrieved
.TP
.I ndx_rtrn
backfilled with the index of the retrieved indicator
.TP
.I state_rtrn
backfilled with the current state of the retrieved indicator
.TP
.I map_rtrn
backfilled with the mapping for the retrieved indicator 
.TP
.I real_rtrn
backfilled with True if the named indicator is real (physical)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb also allows applications to refer to indicators by name. Use 
.I XkbGetNames 
to get the indicator names. Using names eliminates the need for hard-coding 
bitmask values for particular keyboards. For example, instead of using 
vendor-specific constants such as WSKBLed_ScrollLock mask on Digital 
workstations or XLED_SCROLL_LOCK on Sun workstations, you can instead use
.I XkbGetNamedDeviceIndicator
to look up information on the indicator named "Scroll Lock." 

If the device specified by 
.I device_spec 
has an indicator named 
.IR name ", " XkbGetNamedDeviceIndicator
returns True and populates the rest of the parameters with information about the 
indicator. Otherwise, 
.I XkbGetNamedDeviceIndicator
returns False.

The 
.I ndx_rtrn 
field returns the zero-based index of the named indicator. This index is the bit 
position to use in any function call that requires a mask of indicator bits, as 
well as the indicator's index into the XkbIndicatorRec array of indicator maps. 
.I state_rtrn 
returns the current state of the named indicator (True = on, False = off). 
.I map_rtrn 
returns the indicator map for the named indicator. In addition, if the indicator 
is mapped to a physical LED, the 
.I real_rtrn 
parameter is set to True.

Each of the "
.I _rtrn
" arguments is optional; you can pass NULL for any unneeded "
.I _rtrn
" arguments.

.LP
.I XkbGetNamedIndicator
is a convenience function that calls
.I XkbGetNamedDeviceIndicator
with a
.I device_spec
of
.BR XkbUseCoreKbd ,
a
.I led_class
of
.BR XkbDfltXIClass ,
and a
.I led_id
of
.BR XkbDfltXIId .
It returns the return value from
.IR XkbGetNamedDeviceIndicator .

.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
The 
.IR XkbGetNamedIndicator " and " XkbGetNamedDeviceIndicator
functions return True if the device specified by
.I device_spec 
has an indicator named 
.IR name .
.TP 15
False
The 
.IR XkbGetNamedIndicator " and " XkbGetNamedDeviceIndicator
functions return False if the device specified by
.I device_spec 
does not have an indicator named 
.IR name .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbGetNames (__libmansuffix__)
