.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetGeometry __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetGeometry \- Loads a keyboard geometry if you already have the keyboard 
description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetGeometry
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection to the X server
.TP
.I xkb
keyboard description that contains the ID for the keyboard and into which the 
geometry should be loaded
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
You can load a keyboard geometry as part of the keyboard description returned by
.I XkbGetKeyboard. 
However, if a keyboard description has been previously loaded, you can instead 
obtain the geometry by calling the 
.I XkbGetGeometry. 
In this case, the geometry returned is the one associated with the keyboard 
whose device ID is contained in the keyboard description.

.I XkbGetGeometry 
can return BadValue, BadImplementation, BadName, BadAlloc, or BadLength errors 
or Success if it succeeds.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadImplementation
Invalid reply from server
.TP 15
.B BadLength
The length of a request is shorter or longer than that required to minimally 
contain the arguments
.TP 15
.B BadName
A font or color of the specified name does not exist
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is out of range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbGetKeyboard (__libmansuffix__)
