'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetCompatMap __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetCompatMap \- Fetch any combination of the current compatibility map 
components from the server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetCompatMap
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescRec *" "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
connection to server
.TP
.I which
mask of compatibility map components to fetch
.TP
.I xkb
keyboard description where results placed
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
When another client modifies the compatibility map, you are notified if you have 
selected for XkbCompatMapNotify events. 
.I XkbGetCompatMap 
is particularly useful when you receive an event of this type, as it allows you 
to update your program's version of the compatibility map to match the modified 
version now in the server. If your program is dealing with multiple servers and 
needs to configure them all in a similar manner, the updated compatibility map 
may be used to reconfigure other servers. 

.I XkbGetCompatMap 
fetches the components of the compatibility map specified in 
.I which 
from the server specified by 
.I display 
and places them in the 
.I compat 
structure of the keyboard description 
.I xkb. 
Valid values for 
.I which 
are an inclusive OR of the values shown in Table 1.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l l.
Table 1 Compatibility Map Component Masks
_
Mask	Value	Affecting
_
XkbSymInterpMask	(1<<0)	Symbol interpretations
XkbGroupCompatMask	(1<<1)	Group maps
XkbAllCompatMask	(0x3)	All compatibility map components
.TE

If no compatibility map structure is allocated in 
.I xkb 
upon entry, 
.I XkbGetCompatMap 
allocates one. If one already exists, its contents are overwritten with the 
returned results.

.I XkbGetCompatMap 
fetches compatibility map information for the device specified by the
.I device_spec 
field of 
.I xkb. 
Unless you have specifically modified this field, it is the default keyboard 
device. 
.I XkbGetCompatMap 
returns Success if successful, BadAlloc if it is unable to obtain necessary 
storage for either the return values or work space, BadMatch if the 
.I dpy 
field of the 
.I xkb 
argument is non-NULL and does not match the 
.I display 
argument, and BadLength under certain conditions caused by server or Xkb 
implementation errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadLength
The length of a request is shorter or longer than that required to minimally contain the arguments
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available in the server or an argument has 
correct type and range, but is otherwise invalid
