.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetIndicatorChanges __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetIndicatorChanges \- Updates a local copy of the keyboard description with 
the actual values of one or more calls to XkbNoteIndicatorChanges
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetIndicatorChanges
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "XkbIndicatorChangesPtr " "changes" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "state" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection to the X server
.TP
.I xkb
keyboard description to hold the new values 
.TP
.I changes
indicator maps/state to be obtained from the server
.TP
.I state
backfilled with the state of the indicators
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Whenever an indicator changes state, the server sends XkbIndicatorStateNotify events to all 
interested clients. Similarly, whenever an indicator's map changes, the server sends 
XkbIndicatorMapNotify events to all interested clients.

To receive XkbIndicatorStateNotify events, use 
.I XkbSelectEvents 
with both the 
.I bits_to_change 
and 
.I values_for_bits 
parameters containing XkbIndicatorStateNotifyMask. To receive XkbIndicatorMapNotify events, 
use 
.I XkbSelectEvents 
with XkbIndicatorMapNotifyMask.

To receive events for only specific indicators, use 
.I XkbSelectEventDetails. 
Set the 
.I event_type 
parameter to XkbIndicatorStateNotify or XkbIndicatorMapNotify, and set both the
.I bits_to_change 
and 
.I values_for_bits 
detail parameters to a mask where each bit specifies one indicator, turning on those bits that 
specify the indicators for which you want to receive events.

Both types of indicator events use the same structure:
.nf

typedef struct _XkbIndicatorNotify {
  int            type;       /\&* Xkb extension base event code */
  unsigned long  serial;     /\&* X server serial number for event */
  Bool           send_event; /\&* True => synthetically generated */
  Display *      display;    /\&* server connection where event generated */
  Time           time;       /\&* server time when event generated */
  int            xkb_type;   /\&* specifies state or map notify */
  int            device;     /\&* Xkb device ID, will not be XkbUseCoreKbd */
  unsigned int   changed;    /\&* mask of indicators with new state or map */
  unsigned int   state;      /\&* current state of all indicators */
} XkbIndicatorNotifyEvent;
     
.fi     
.I xkb_type 
is either XkbIndicatorStateNotify or XkbIndicatorMapNotify, depending on whether the event is 
a kbIndicatorStateNotify event or kbIndicatorMapNotify event.

The 
.I changed 
parameter is a mask that is the bitwise inclusive OR of the indicators that have changed. If 
the event is of type XkbIndicatorMapNotify, 
.I changed 
reports the maps that changed. If the event is of type XkbIndicatorStateNotify, 
.I changed 
reports the indicators that have changed state. 
.I state 
is a mask that specifies the current state of all indicators, whether they have changed or 
not, for both XkbIndicatorStateNotify and IndicatorMapNotify events.

When your client application receives either a XkbIndicatorStateNotify event or 
XkbIndicatorMapNotify event, you can note the changes in a changes structure by calling
.I XkbNoteIndicatorChanges.

.I XkbGetIndicatorChanges 
examines the 
.I changes 
parameter, pulls over the necessary information from the server, and copies the 
results into the 
.I xkb 
keyboard description. If any bits are set in the 
.I state_changes 
field of 
.I changes, XkbGetIndicatorChanges 
also places the state of those indicators in 
.I state. 
If the 
.I indicators 
field of 
.I xkb 
is NULL, 
.I XkbGetIndicatorChanges 
allocates and initializes it. To free the 
.I indicators 
field, use 
.I XkbFreeIndicators.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadImplementation
Invalid reply from server
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available in the server or an argument has 
correct type and range, but is otherwise invalid
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbFreeIndicators (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbGetIndicatorChanges (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbNoteIndicatorChanges (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbSelectEvents (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbSelectEventDetail (__libmansuffix__)



