.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetKeyBehaviors __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetKeyBehaviors \- Obtain the behaviors (the behaviors array) for a subset of the keys in
a keyboard description from the server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetKeyBehaviors
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "first" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection to server
.TP
.I first
keycode of first key to get
.TP
.I num
number of keys for which behaviors are desired
.TP
.I xkb
Xkb description to contain the result
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
sends a request to the server to obtain the behaviors for 
.I num 
keys on the keyboard starting with the key whose keycode is 
.I first. 
It waits for a reply and returns the behaviors in the 
.I server->behaviors 
field of 
.I xkb. 
If successful, 
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
returns Success.

If the 
.I server 
map in the 
.I xkb 
parameter has not been allocated, 
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
allocates and initializes it before obtaining the actions.

If the server does not have a compatible version of Xkb, or the Xkb extension has not been 
properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
returns BadAccess. If 
.I num 
is less than 1 or greater than XkbMaxKeyCount, 
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
returns BadValue. If any allocation errors occur, 
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
returns BadAlloc. 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAccess
The Xkb extension has not been properly initialized
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is out of range
