'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbKeyGroupWidth __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbKeyGroupWidth \-  Computes the width of the type associated with the group
.I grp 
for the key corresponding to 
.I keycode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B int XkbKeyGroupWidth
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "KeyCode " "keycode" "\^,"
.BI "int " "grp" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I xkb
Xkb description of interest
.TP
.I keycode
keycode of interest
.TP
.I grp
group of interest
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The key width and number of groups associated with a key are used to form a 
small two-dimensional array of KeySyms for a key. This array may be different 
sizes for different keys. The array for a single key is stored as a linear list, 
in row-major order. The arrays for all of the keys are stored in the 
.I syms 
field of the client map. There is one row for each group associated with a key 
and one column for each level. The index corresponding to a given group and 
shift level is computed as:
.nf

     idx = group_index * key_width + shift_level
     
.fi
The 
.I offset 
field of the 
.I key_sym_map 
entry for a key is used to access the beginning of the array.

.I XkbKeyGroupWidth 
computes the width of the type associated with the group 
.I grp 
for the key corresponding to 
.I keycode.
