'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbLatchModifiers __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbLatchModifiers \-  Latches and unlatches any of the eight real keyboard 
modifiers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbLatchModifiers
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "device_spec" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "affect" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "values" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
connection to the X server 
.TP
.I device_spec
device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I affect
mask of real modifiers whose lock state is to change
.TP
.I values
1 => lock, 0 => unlock; only for modifiers selected by affect
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbLatchModifiers 
sends a request to the server to latch the real modifiers 
selected by both 
.I affect 
and 
.I values 
and to unlatch the real modifiers selected by 
.I affect
, but not selected by 
.I values. 

.I XkbLatchModifiers 
does not wait for a reply from the server. It returns True if 
the request was sent, and False otherwise.

The functions in this section that change the use of modifiers use a mask in the 
parameter affect. It is a bitwise inclusive OR of the legal modifier masks: 

.TS
c 
l 
l.
Table 1 Real Modifier Masks
_
Mask
_
ShiftMask
LockMask
ControlMask
Mod1Mask
Mod2Mask
Mod3Mask
Mod4Mask
Mod5Mask
.TE
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
The 
.I XkbLatchModifiers 
function returns True if a request was sent to the server to latch the real modifiers selected by both 
.I affect 
and 
.I values 
and to unlatch the real modifiers selected by 
.I affect
, but not selected by 
.I values. 
.TP 15
False
The 
.I XkbLatchModifiers 
function returns False if the request was not sent.

