.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbLookupKeyBinding __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbLookupKeyBinding \- Find the string bound to a key by XRebindKeySym
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B int XkbLookupKeyBinding
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "KeySym " "sym" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "state" "\^,"
.BI "char *" "buf" "\^,"
.BI "int " "nbytes" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "extra_rtrn" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection to server
.TP
.I sym
connection to server
.TP
.I state
state for which string is to be looked up
.TP
.I buf
buffer into which returned string is written
.TP
.I nbytes
size of buffer in bytes
.TP
.I extra_rtrn
backfilled with number bytes overflow
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbLookupKeyBinding 
is the equivalent of the core 
.I XLookupString 
function.

.I XRebindKeysym 
binds an ASCII string to a specified keysym, so that the string and keysym are 
returned when the key is pressed and a specified list of modifiers are also 
being held down. 
.I XkbLookupKeyBinding 
returns in 
.I buf 
the string associated with the keysym 
.I sym 
and modifier state 
.I state. buf 
is NULL terminated unless there's an overflow. If the string returned is larger 
than 
.I nbytes, 
a count of bytes that does not fit into the buffer is returned in 
.I extra_rtrn. 
.I XkbTranslateKeySym 
returns the number of bytes that it placed into 
.I buf.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbTranslateKeySym (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XLookupString (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XRebindKeysym (__libmansuffix__)
