.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbLookupKeySym __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbLookupKeySym \- Find the symbol associated with a key for a particular state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbLookupKeySym
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "KeyCode " "key" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "state" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int *" "mods_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "KeySym *" "sym_rtrn" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection to X server
.TP
.I key
key for which symbols are to be found
.TP
.I state
state for which symbol should be found
.TP
.I mods_rtrn
backfilled with consumed modifiers
.TP
.I sym_rtrn
backfilled with symbol associated with key + state
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbLookupKeySym 
is the equivalent of the core 
.I XLookupKeySym 
function. For the core keyboard, given a keycode 
.I key 
and an Xkb state 
.I state, XkbLookupKeySym 
returns the symbol associated with the key in 
.I sym_rtrn 
and the list of modifiers that should still be applied in 
.I mods_rtrn. 
The 
.I state 
parameter is the state from a KeyPress or KeyRelease event. 
.I XkbLookupKeySym 
returns True if it succeeds.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XLookupKeySym (__libmansuffix__)

