'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbListComponents __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbListComponents \- List of components for one or more component types
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbComponentListPtr XkbListComponents
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "device_spec" "\^,"
.BI "XkbComponentNamesPtr " "ptrns" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "max_inout" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection to X server
.TP
.I device_spec
device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I ptrns
namelist for components of interest
.TP
.I max_inout
max # returned names, # left over
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
You may ask the server for a list of components for one or more component types. The request takes the 
form of a set of patterns, one pattern for each of the component types, including a pattern for the 
complete keyboard description. To obtain this list, use 
.I XkbListComponents.

.I XkbListComponents 
queries the server for a list of component names matching the patterns specified in 
.I ptrns. 
It waits for a reply and returns the matching component names in an XkbComponentListRec structure. 
When you are done using the structure, you should free it using 
.I XkbFreeComponentList. device_spec 
indicates a particular device in which the caller is interested. A server is allowed (but not 
required) to restrict its reply to portions of the database that are relevant for that particular 
device.

.I ptrns 
is a pointer to an XkbComponentNamesRec. Each of the fields in 
.I ptrns 
contains a pattern naming the components of interest. Each of the patterns is composed of characters 
from the ISO Latin1 encoding, but can contain only parentheses, the wildcard characters `?' and `*', 
and characters permitted in a component class or member name. A pattern may be NULL, in which case no 
components for that type is returned. Pattern matches with component names are case sensitive. The `?' 
wildcard matches any single character, except a left or right parenthesis; the `*' wildcard matches 
any number of characters, except a left or right parenthesis. If an implementation allows additional 
characters in a component class or member name other than those required by the Xkb extension, the 
result of comparing one of the additional characters to either of the wildcard characters is 
implementation-dependent.

If a pattern contains illegal characters, the illegal characters are ignored. The matching process is 
carried out as if the illegal characters were omitted from the pattern.

.I max_inout 
is used to throttle the amount of data passed to and from the server. On input, it specifies the 
maximum number of names to be returned (the total number of names in all component categories). Upon 
return from 
.I XkbListComponents, 
max_inout contains the number of names that matched the request but were not returned because of the 
limit.

.B Component Names

Component names have the form 
.I "class(member)" 
where 
.I class 
describes a subset of the available components for a particular type and the optional 
.I member 
identifies a specific component from that subset. For example, the name "atlantis(acme)" for a symbols 
component might specify the symbols used for the atlantis national keyboard layout by the vendor 
"acme." Each class has an optional 
.I default 
member - references that specify a class but not a member refer to the default member of the class, if 
one exists. Xkb places no constraints on the interpretation of the class and member names used in 
component names.

The 
.I class 
and 
.I member 
names are both specified using characters from the Latin-1 character set. Xkb implementations must 
accept all alphanumeric characters, minus (`-') and underscore (`_') in class or member names, and 
must not accept parentheses, plus, vertical bar, percent sign, asterisk, question mark, or white 
space. The use of other characters is implementation-dependent.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
The component name patterns used to describe the request are passed to
.I XkbListComponents 
using an XkbComponentNamesRec structure. This structure has no special allocation constraints or 
interrelationships with other structures; allocate and free this structure using standard 
.I malloc 
and 
.I free 
calls or their equivalent:
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbComponentNames {
        char *         keymap;           /\&* keymap names */
        char *         keycodes;         /\&* keycode names */
        char *         types;            /\&* type names */
        char *         compat;           /\&* compatibility map names */
        char *         symbols;          /\&* symbol names */
        char *         geometry;         /\&* geometry names */
    } XkbComponentNamesRec, *XkbComponentNamesPtr;
    
.fi    
.I XkbListComponents 
returns a pointer to an XkbComponentListRec:
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbComponentList {
        int                      num_keymaps;  /\&* number of entries in keymap */
        int                      num_keycodes; /\&* number of entries in keycodes */
        int                      num_types;    /\&* number of entries in types */
        int                      num_compat;   /\&* number of entries in compat */
        int                      num_symbols;  /\&* number of entries in symbols */
        int                      num_geometry; /\&* number of entries in geometry;
        XkbComponentNamePtr      keymap;       /\&* keymap names */
        XkbComponentNamePtr      keycodes;     /\&* keycode names */
        XkbComponentNamePtr      types;        /\&* type names */
        XkbComponentNamePtr      compat;       /\&* compatibility map names */
        XkbComponentNamePtr      symbols;      /\&* symbol names */
        XkbComponentNamePtr      geometry;     /\&* geometry names */
    } XkbComponentListRec, *XkbComponentListPtr;
    
    typedef struct _XkbComponentName {
        unsigned short           flags;        /\&* hints regarding component name */
        char *                   name;         /\&* name of component */
    } XkbComponentNameRec, *XkbComponentNamePtr;
    
.fi   
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbFreeComponentList (__libmansuffix__) 
.SH NOTES
.LP
Note that the structure used to specify patterns on input is an XkbComponentNamesRec, and that used to 
hold the individual component names upon return is an XkbComponentNameRec (no trailing `s' in Name).
