'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetDeviceInfo __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetDeviceInfo \- Modify some or all of the characteristics of an X Input 
Extension device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSetDeviceInfo
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDeviceInfoPtr " "device_info" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection to X server
.TP
.I which
mask indicating characteristics to modify
.TP
.I device_info
structure defining the device and modifications
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
To change characteristics of an X Input Extension device in the server, first 
modify a local copy of the device structure and then use either
.I XkbSetDeviceInfo, 
or, to save network traffic, use an XkbDeviceChangesRec structure and call
.I XkbChangeDeviceInfo 
to download the changes to the server.

.I XkbSetDeviceInfo 
sends a request to the server to modify the characteristics of the device 
specified in the
.I device_info 
structure. The particular characteristics modified are identified by the bits 
set in 
.I which 
and take their values from the relevant fields in 
device_info (see Table 1). XkbSetDeviceInfo returns True if the request was 
successfully sent to the server. If the X server implementation does not allow 
interaction between the X input extension and the Xkb Extension, the function 
does nothing and returns False.
.bp
.nf
                         Table 1 XkbDeviceInfoRec Mask Bits
____________________________________________________________________________________
Name                         XkbDeviceInfoRec Value     Capability If Set
                             Fields Effected            
____________________________________________________________________________________
XkbXI_KeyboardsMask                           (1L <<0) Clients can use all
                                                       Xkb requests and events
                                                       with KeyClass devices 
                                                       supported by the input
                                                       device extension.

XkbXI_ButtonActionsMask       num_btns        (1L <<1) Clients can assign key 
                              btn_acts                 actions to buttons 
                                                       non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.
                           
XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask      leds->names     (1L <<2) Clients can assign
                                                       names to indicators on
                                                       non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.
                                                             
XkbXI_IndicatorMapsMask       leds->maps      (1L <<3) Clients can assign
                                                       indicator maps to
                                                       indicators on 
                                                       non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.

XkbXI_IndicatorStateMask      leds->state     (1L <<4) Clients can request 
                                                       the status of indicators
                                                       on non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.

XkbXI_IndicatorsMask          sz_leds         (0x1c)   XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask |
                              num_leds                 XkbXI_IndicatorMapsMask |
                              leds->*                  XkbXI_IndicatorStateMask

XkbXI_UnsupportedFeaturesMask unsupported     (1L <<15)

XkbXI_AllDeviceFeaturesMask   Those selected  (0x1e)   XkbXI_IndicatorsMask |
                              by Value Column          XkbSI_ButtonActionsMask
                              masks 

XkbXI_AllFeaturesMask         Those selected  (0x1f)   XkbSI_AllDeviceFeaturesMask |
                              by Value Column          XkbSI_KeyboardsMask
                              masks

XkbXI_AllDetailsMask          Those selected  (0x801f) XkbXI_AllFeaturesMask |
                              by Value column          XkbXI_UnsupportedFeaturesMask
                              masks
.fi

The 
.I which 
parameter specifies which aspects of the device should be changed and is a 
bitmask composed of an inclusive OR or one or more of the following bits: 
XkbXI_ButtonActionsMask, XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask, XkbXI_IndicatorMapsMask. If 
the features requested to be manipulated in 
.I which 
are valid for the device, but the server does not support assignment of one or 
more of them, that particular portion of the request is ignored.
 
If the device specified in 
.I device_info->device_spec 
does not contain buttons and a request affecting buttons is made, or the device 
does not contain indicators and a request affecting indicators is made, a 
BadMatch protocol error results.

If the XkbXI_ButtonActionsMask bit is set in the 
.I supported 
mask returned by 
.I XkbGetDeviceInfo, 
the Xkb extension allows applications to assign key actions to buttons on input 
extension devices other than the core keyboard device. If the 
XkbXI_ButtonActionsMask is set in 
.I which, 
the actions for all buttons specified in 
.I device_info 
are set to the XkbActions specified in 
.I device_info->btn_acts. 
If the number of buttons requested to be updated is not valid for the device,
.I XkbSetDeviceInfo 
returns False and a BadValue protocol error results.

If the XkbXI_IndicatorMaps and / or XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask bit is set in the 
.I supported 
mask returned by 
.I XkbGetDeviceInfo, 
the Xkb extension allows applications to assign maps and / or names to the 
indicators of nonkeyboard extension devices. If supported, maps and / or names 
can be assigned to all extension device indicators, whether they are part of a 
keyboard feedback or part of an indicator feedback.
 
If the XkbXI_IndicatorMapsMask and / or XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask flag is set in 
.I which, 
the indicator maps and / or names for all 
.I device_info->num_leds 
indicator devices specified in 
.I device_info->leds 
are set to the maps and / or names specified in 
.I device_info->leds. device_info->leds->led_class 
and 
.I led_id 
specify the input extension class and device ID for each indicator device to 
modify; if they have invalid values, a BadValue protocol error results and 
.I XkbSetDeviceInfo 
returns False. If they have legal values but do not specify a keyboard or 
indicator class feedback for the device in question, a BadMatch error results. 
If any of the values in
.I device_info->leds->names 
are not a valid Atom or None, a BadAtom protocol error results.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
The 
.I XkbSetDeviceInfo 
function returns True if the request was successfully sent to the server.
.TP 15
False
The 
.I XkbSetDeviceInfo 
function returns False if the X server implementation does not allow interaction 
between the X input extension and the Xkb Extension.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
Changes to an Xkb extension device may be tracked by listening to 
XkbDeviceExtensionNotify events and accumulating the changes in an 
XkbDeviceChangesRec structure. The changes noted in the structure may then be 
used in subsequent operations to update either a server configuration or a local 
copy of an Xkb extension device configuration. The changes structure is defined 
as follows:
.nf

typedef struct _XkbDeviceChanges {
    unsigned int    changed;    /\&* bits indicating what has changed */
    unsigned short  first_btn;  /\&* number of first button which changed, if any */
    unsigned short  num_btns;   /\&* number of buttons that have changed */
    XkbDeviceLedChangesRec leds;
} XkbDeviceChangesRec,*XkbDeviceChangesPtr;

.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAtom
A name is neither a valid Atom or None
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available in the server or an argument has 
correct type and range, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is out of range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbChangeDeviceInfo (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbGetDeviceInfo (__libmansuffix__)
