'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSARedirectSetVModsMask __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSARedirectSetVModsMask \- Sets the vmods_mask0 and vmods_mask1 fields of act 
from vm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B void XkbSARedirectSetVModsMask
.BI "(\^XkbRedirectKeyAction " "act" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "vm" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I act
action in which to set vmods
.TP
.I vm
new value for virtual modifier mask
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Actions associated with the XkbRedirectKeyAction structure generate KeyPress and 
KeyRelease events 
containing a keycode different from the key that was pressed or released.

The 
.I type 
field for the XkbRedirectKeyAction structure should always be XkbSA_RedirectKey.
Key presses cause a KeyPress event for the key specified by the 
.I new_key 
field instead of the actual key. The state reported in this event reports the 
current effective 
modifiers changed as follows: any real modifiers selected by the 
.I mods_mask 
field are set to corresponding values from the 
.I mods 
field. Any real modifiers bound to the virtual modifiers specified by the
.I vmods_mask0 
and 
.I vmods_mask1 
fields are either set or cleared, depending on the corresponding values in the
.I vmods0 
and 
.I vmods1 
fields. If the real and virtual modifier definitions specify conflicting values 
for a single modifier, 
the real modifier definition has priority.

Key releases cause a KeyRelease event for the key specified by the 
.I new_key 
field instead of the actual key. The state for this event consists of the 
effective keyboard modifiers 
at the time of the release, changed as described previously.

The XkbSA_RedirectKey action normally redirects to another key on the same 
device as the key that 
caused the event, unless that device does not belong to the input extension 
KeyClass, in which case 
this action causes an event on the core keyboard device. (The input extension 
categorizes devices by 
breaking them into classes. Keyboards, and other input devices with keys, are 
classified as KeyClass 
devices by the input extension.)

The 
.I vmods_mask0 
and 
.I vmods_mask1 
fields actually represent one 
.I vmods_mask 
value. Xkb provides macros to convert between the two formats.

.I XkbSARedirectSetVModsMask 
sets the 
.I vmods_mask0 
and 
.I vmods_mask1 
fields of 
.I act 
from 
.I vm. 
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct_XkbRedirectKeyAction {
        unsigned char   type;        /\&* XkbSA_RedirectKey */
        unsigned char   new_key;     /\&* keycode to be put in event */
        unsigned char   mods_mask;   /\&* mask of real mods to be reset */
        unsigned char   mods;        /\&* mask of real mods to take values from */
        unsigned char   vmods_mask0; /\&* first half of mask of virtual mods to be reset */
        unsigned char   vmods_mask1; /\&* other half of mask of virtual mods to be reset */
        unsigned char   vmods0;      /\&* first half of mask of virtual mods to take values from */
        unsigned char   vmods1;      /\&* other half of mask of virtual mods to take values from */
    } XkbRedirectKeyAction;
    
.fi
