'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetControls __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetControls \- Copies changes to the X server based on a modified ctrls 
structure in a local copy of the keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSetControls
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned long " "which" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
connection to X server
.TP
.I which
mask of controls requested
.TP
.I xkb
keyboard description for controls information
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
For each bit that is set in the 
.I which 
parameter, 
.I XkbSetControls 
sends the corresponding values from the 
.I xkb->ctrls 
field to the server. Valid values for 
.I which 
are any combination of the masks listed in Table 1 that have "ok" in the
.I which 
column.

Table 1 shows the actual values for the individual mask bits used to select 
controls for 
modification and to enable and disable the control. Note that the same mask bit 
is used to 
specify general modifications to the parameters used to configure the control 
(which), and to 
enable and disable the control (enabled_ctrls). The anomalies in the table (no 
"ok" in column) 
are for controls that have no configurable attributes; and for controls that are 
not boolean 
controls and therefore cannot be enabled or disabled.

.TS
c s s s
l l l l
l l l l
l l l l. 
Table 1 Controls Mask Bits
_
Mask Bit	which or	enabled	Value
	changed_ctrls	_ctrls
_
XkbRepeatKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<0)
XkbSlowKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<1)
XkbBounceKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<2)
XkbStickyKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<3)
XkbMouseKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<4)
XkbMouseKeysAccelMask	ok	ok	(1L<<5)
XkbAccessXKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<6)
XkbAccessXTimeoutMask	ok	ok	(1L<<7)
XkbAccessXFeedbackMask	ok	ok	(1L<<8)
XkbAudibleBellMask		ok	(1L<<9)
XkbOverlay1Mask		ok	(1L<<10)
XkbOverlay2Mask		ok	(1L<<11)
XkbIgnoreGroupLockMask		ok	(1L<<12)
XkbGroupsWrapMask	ok		(1L<<27)
XkbInternalModsMask	ok		(1L<<28)
XkbIgnoreLockModsMask	ok		(1L<<29)
XkbPerKeyRepeatMask	ok		(1L<<30)
XkbControlsEnabledMask	ok		(1L<<31)
XkbAccessXOptionsMask	ok	ok	(XkbStickyKeysMask | 
			XkbAccessXFeedbackMask)
XkbAllBooleanCtrlsMask		ok	(0x00001FFF) 
XkbAllControlsMask	ok		(0xF8001FFF)
.TE

If 
.I xkb->ctrls 
is NULL, the server does not support a compatible version of Xkb, or the Xkb 
extension has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbSetControls 
returns False. Otherwise, it sends the request to the X server and returns True.

Note that changes to attributes of controls in the XkbControlsRec structure are 
apparent only when the associated control is enabled, although the corresponding 
values are still updated in the X server. For example, the 
.I repeat_delay 
and 
.I repeat_interval 
fields are ignored unless the RepeatKeys control is enabled (that is, the X 
server's equivalent of 
.I xkb->ctrls 
has XkbRepeatKeyMask set in 
.I enabled_ctrls). 
It is permissible to modify the attributes of a control in one call to
.I XkbSetControls 
and enable the control in a subsequent call. See 
.I XkbChangeEnabledControls 
for more information on enabling and disabling controls.

Note that the 
.I enabled_ctrls 
field is itself a control - the EnabledControls control. As such, to set a 
specific configuration of enabled and disabled boolean controls, you must set
.I enabled_ctrls 
to the appropriate bits to enable only the controls you want and disable all 
others, then specify the XkbControlsEnabledMask in a call to 
.I XkbSetControls. 

Because this is somewhat awkward if all you want to do is enable and disable 
controls, and not modify any of their attributes, a convenience function is also 
provided for this purpose, 
.I XkbChangeEnabledControls.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
The 
.I XkbSetControls 
function returns True when it sends the request to the X server.
.TP 15
False
The 
.I XkbSetControls 
function returns False when 
.I xkb->ctrls 
is NULL, the server does not support a compatible version of Xkb, or the Xkb 
extension has not been properly initialized.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available in the server or an argument has 
correct type and range, but is otherwise invalid
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbChangeEnabledControls (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbFreeControls (__libmansuffix__)

