'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSASetScreen __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSASetScreen \- Sets the screenXXX field of act from s
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B void XkbSASetScreen
.BI "(\^XkbSwitchScreenAction " "act" "\^,"
.BI "int " "s" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I act
action in which to set screenXXX
.TP
.I s
value to set in screenXXX
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Actions associated with the XkbSwitchScreen action structure change the active 
screen on a multiscreen display.

The 
.I type 
field of the XkbSwitchScreenAction structure should always be 
XkbSA_SwitchScreen.

The 
.I flags 
field is composed of the bitwise inclusive OR of the masks shown in Table 1.

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 Switch Screen Action Flags
_
Flag	Meaning
_
XkbSA_SwitchAbsolute	T{
If set, the screenXXX field represents the index of the new screen. Otherwise, 
it represents an offset from the current screen to the new screen.
T}
XkbSA_SwitchApplication	T{
If not set, the action should switch to another screen on the same server. 
Otherwise, it should switch to another X server or application that shares the 
same physical display.
T}
.TE

The 
.I screenXXX 
field is a signed character value that represents either the relative or 
absolute screen index, depending on the state of the XkbSA_SwitchAbsolute bit in 
the 
.I flags 
field. Xkb provides the following macros to convert between the integer and 
signed character value for screen numbers in XkbSwitchScreenAction structures.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbSwitchScreenAction {
        unsigned char    type;        /\&* XkbSA_SwitchScreen */
        unsigned char    flags;       /\&* controls screen switching */
        char             screenXXX;   /\&* screen number or delta */
    } XkbSwitchScreenAction;

.fi
.SH NOTES
.LP
This action is optional. Servers are free to ignore the action or any of its 
flags if they do not support the requested behavior. If the action is ignored, 
it behaves like XkbSA_NoAction. Otherwise, key press and key release events do 
not generate an event. 
