'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetIndicatorMap __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetIndicatorMap \- Downloads the changes to the server based on modifications 
to a local copy of the keyboard description which will update the maps for one 
or more indicators
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSetIndicatorMap
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "desc" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection to the X server
.TP
.I which
mask of indicators to change
.TP
.I desc
keyboard description from which the maps are taken
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This section discusses the effects of explicitly changing indicators depending 
upon different settings in the indicator map. See Tables 1 and Table 2 for 
information on the effects of the indicator map fields when explicit changes are 
made.

.TS
c s s
c s s
l l l
l l lw(3i).
Table 1 XkbIndicatorMapRec which_groups and groups, 
Indicator Drives Keyboard
_
which_groups	New State	Effect on Keyboard Group State
_
XkbIM_UseNone	On or Off	No effect
XkbIM_UseBase	On or Off	No effect
XkbIM_UseLatched	On	T{
The groups field is treated as a group mask. The keyboard group latch is changed 
to the lowest numbered 
group specified in groups; if groups is empty, the  keyboard group latch is 
changed to zero.
T}
XkbIM_UseLatched	Off	T{
The groups field is treated as a group mask. If the indicator is explicitly 
extinguished, keyboard group 
latch is changed to the lowest numbered group not specified in groups; if groups 
is zero, the keyboard 
group latch is set to the index of the highest legal keyboard group.
T}
XkbIM_UseLocked or
.br
XkbIM_UseEffective	On	T{
If the groups mask is empty, group is not changed; otherwise, the locked 
keyboard group is changed to the 
lowest numbered group specified in groups.
T}
XkbIM_UseLocked or
.br
XkbIM_UseEffective	Off	T{
Locked keyboard group is changed to the lowest numbered group that is not 
specified in the groups mask, or 
to Group1 if the groups mask contains all keyboard groups.
T}

.TE

.TS
c s s
c s s
l l l
l l lw(3i).
Table 2 XkbIndicatorMapRec which_mods and mods,
Indicator Drives Keyboard
_
which_mods	New State	Effect on Keyboard Modifiers
_
XkbIM_UseNone or
.br
XkbIM_UseBase	On or Off	No Effect
XkbIM_UseLatched	On	T{
Any modifiers specified in the mask field of mods are added to the latched 
modifiers.
T}
XkbIM_UseLatched	Off	T{
Any modifiers specified in the mask field of mods are removed from the latched 
modifiers.
T}
XkbIM_UseLocked,
.br
XkbIM_UseCompat, or
.br
XkbIM_UseEffective	On	T{
Any modifiers specified in the mask field of mods are added to the locked 
modifiers.
T}
XkbIM_UseLocked	Off	T{
Any modifiers specified in the mask field of mods are removed from the locked 
modifiers.
T}
XkbIM_UseCompat or
.br
XkbIM_UseEffective	Off	T{
Any modifiers specified in the mask field of mods are removed from both the 
locked and latched modifiers.
T}
.TE

If XkbIM_LEDDrivesKB is set and XkbIM_NoExplicit is not, and if you call a 
function that updates the server's image of the indicator map (such as
.I XkbSetIndicatorMap 
or 
.IR XkbSetNamedIndicator ),
Xkb changes the keyboard state and controls to reflect the other fields of the
indicator map. If you attempt to explicitly change the value of an indicator for 
which XkbIM_LEDDrivesKB is absent or for which XkbIM_NoExplicit is present, 
keyboard state or controls are unaffected.
 
If neither XkbIM_NoAutomatic nor XkbIM_NoExplicit is set in an indicator map, 
Xkb honors any request to change the state of the indicator, but the new state 
might be immediately superseded by automatic changes to the indicator state if 
the keyboard state or controls change.

The effects of changing an indicator that drives the keyboard are cumulative; it 
is possible for a single change to affect keyboard group, modifiers, and 
controls simultaneously.

If you change an indicator for which both the XkbIM_LEDDrivesKB and 
XkbIM_NoAutomatic flags are specified, Xkb applies the keyboard changes 
specified in the other indicator map fields and changes the indicator to reflect 
the state that was explicitly requested. The indicator remains in the new state 
until it is explicitly changed again.

If the XkbIM_NoAutomatic flag is not set and XkbIM_LEDDrivesKB is set, Xkb 
applies the changes specified in the other indicator map fields and sets the 
state of the indicator to the values specified by the indicator map. Note that 
it is possible in this case for the indicator to end up in a different state 
than the one that was explicitly requested. For example, Xkb does not extinguish 
an indicator with 
.I which_mods 
of XkbIM_UseBase and 
.I mods 
of Shift if, at the time Xkb processes the request to extinguish the indicator, 
one of the Shift keys is physically depressed.

If you explicitly light an indicator for which XkbIM_LEDDrivesKB is set, Xkb 
enables all of the boolean controls specified in the 
.I ctrls 
field of its indicator map. Explicitly extinguishing such an indicator causes 
Xkb to disable all of the boolean controls specified in 
.I ctrls. 

For each bit set in the 
.I which 
parameter, 
.I XkbSetIndicatorMap 
sends the corresponding indicator map from the 
.I desc 
parameter to the server.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbSetNamedIndicator (__libmansuffix__)
