'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSelectEvents __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSelectEvents \-  Selects and / or deselects for delivery of one or more Xkb
events and has them delivered under all conditions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSelectEvents
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "device_spec" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned long int " "bits_to_change" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned long int " "values_for_bits" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
connection to the X server
.TP
.I device_spec
device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I bits_to_change
determines events to be selected / deselected
.TP
.I values_for_bits
1=>select, 0->deselect; for events in bits_to_change
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb events are selected using an event mask, much the same as normal core X
events are selected. However, unlike selecting core X events, where you must
specify the selection status (on or off) for all possible event types whenever
you wish to change the selection criteria for any one event, Xkb allows you to
restrict the specification to only the event types you wish to change. This
means that you do not need to remember the event selection values for all
possible types each time you want to change one of them.

Many Xkb event types are generated under several different circumstances. When
selecting to receive an Xkb event, you may specify either that you want it
delivered under all circumstances, or that you want it delivered only for a
subset of the possible circumstances.

You can also deselect an event type that was previously selected for, using the
same granularity.

Xkb provides two functions to select and deselect delivery of Xkb events.
.I XkbSelectEvents
allows you to select or deselect delivery of more than one Xkb
event type at once. Events selected using
.I XkbSelectEvents
are delivered to your program under all circumstances that generate the events.
To restrict delivery of an event to a subset of the conditions under which it
occurs, use
.I XkbSelectEventDetails. XkbSelectEventDetails
only allows you to change the selection conditions for a single event at a time,
but it provides a means of fine-tuning the conditions under which the event is
delivered.

This request changes the Xkb event selection mask for the keyboard specified by
.I device_spec.

Each Xkb event that can be selected is represented by a bit in the
.I bits_to_change
and
.I values_for_bits
masks. Only the event selection bits specified by the
.I bits_to_change
parameter are affected; any unspecified bits are left unchanged. To turn on
event selection for an event, set the bit for the event in the
.I bits_to_change
parameter and set the corresponding bit in the
.I values_for_bits
parameter. To turn off event selection for an event, set the bit for the event
in the
.I bits_to_change
parameter and do not set the corresponding bit in the
.I values_for_bits
parameter. The valid values for both of these parameters are an inclusive
bitwise OR of the masks shown in Table 1. There is no interface to return your
client's current event selection mask. Clients cannot set other clients' event
selection masks.

The X server reports the events defined by Xkb to your client application only
if you have requested them via a call to
.I XkbSelectEvents
or
.I XkbSelectEventDetails.
Specify the event types in which you are interested in a mask.

Table 1 lists the event mask constants that can be specified with the
.I XkbSelectEvents
request and the circumstances in which the mask should be specified.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l l.
Table 1 XkbSelectEvents Mask Constants
_
Event Mask	Value	Notification Wanted
_
XkbNewKeyboardNotifyMask	(1L<<0)	Keyboard geometry change
XkbMapNotifyMask	(1L<<1)	Keyboard mapping change
XkbStateNotifyMask	(1L<<2)	Keyboard state change
XkbControlsNotifyMask	(1L<<3)	Keyboard control change
XkbIndicatorStateNotifyMask	(1L<<4)	Keyboard indicator state change
XkbIndicatorMapNotifyMask	(1L<<5)	Keyboard indicator map change
XkbNamesNotifyMask	(1L<<6)	Keyboard name change
XkbCompatMapNotifyMask	(1L<<7)	Keyboard compat map change
XkbBellNotifyMask	(1L<<8)	Bell
XkbActionMessageMask	(1L<<9)	Action message
XkbAccessXNotifyMask	(1L<<10)	AccessX features
XkbExtensionDeviceNotifyMask	(1L<<11)	Extension device
XkbAllEventsMask	(0xFFF)	All Xkb events
.TE

If a bit is not set in the
.I bits_to_change
parameter, but the corresponding bit is set in the
.I values_for_bits
parameter, a BadMatch protocol error results. If an undefined bit is set in
either the
.I bits_to_change
or the
.I values_for_bits
parameter, a BadValue protocol error results.

All event selection bits are initially zero for clients using the Xkb extension.
Once you set some bits, they remain set for your client until you clear them via
another call to
.I XkbSelectEvents.

.I XkbSelectEvents
returns False if the Xkb extension has not been initialized and True
otherwise.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
The
.I XkbSelectEvents
function returns True if the Xkb extension has been initialized.
.TP 15
False
The
.I XkbSelectEvents
function returns False if the Xkb extension has not been initialized.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbSelectEventDetails (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbUseCoreKbd (__libmansuffix__)
