.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Isilon Inc http://www.isilon.com/
.\" Authors: Doug Rabson <dfr@rabson.org>
.\" Developed with Red Inc: Alfred Perlstein <alfred@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd January 26, 2010
.Dt RPC_GSS_GET_MECH_INFO 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rpc_gss_get_mech_info
.Nd "Get Quality of Protection information for a security mechanism"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In rpc/rpcsec_gss.h
.Ft const char **
.Fn rpc_gss_get_mech_info "const char *mech" "rpc_gss_service_t *service"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This function returns the list of QOP names supported by the
GSS_API mechanism named "mech".
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width ".It service"
.It mech
The name of a GSS_API mechanism.
"kerberos_v5" is currently the only supported mechanism.
.It service
Buffer in which maximum service type is planted
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If the named GSS_API mechanism is recognized,
a list of the supported Qualities of Protection is returned.
The maximum supported service type for the mechanism is returned in
.Fa *service .
Otherwise
.Dv NULL
is returned.
.Pp
Note: The returned QOP list is statically allocated memory.
The caller must not free this array.
.Sh AVAILABILITY
The
.Fn rpc_gss_get_mech_info
function is part of libtirpc.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rpc 3 ,
.Xr gssapi 3 ,
.Xr rpcsec_gss 3
.Sh AUTHORS
This
manual page was written by
.An Doug Rabson Aq dfr@FreeBSD.org .
