.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Isilon Inc http://www.isilon.com/
.\" Authors: Doug Rabson <dfr@rabson.org>
.\" Developed with Red Inc: Alfred Perlstein <alfred@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd January 26, 2010
.Dt RPC_GSS_QOP_TO_NUM 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rpc_gss_qop_to_num
.Nd "Convert a Quality of Protection name to number"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In rpc/rpcsec_gss.h
.Ft bool_t
.Fn rpc_gss_qop_to_num "const char *qop" "const char *mech" "u_int *num_ret"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This function returns the numeric QOP value associated with the
GSS_API QOP "qop" and mechanism "mech."
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width ".It number_ret"
.It qop
The name of Quality of Protection associated with the
GSS_API mechanism "mech".
"GSS_C_QOP_DEFAULT" is currently the only supported QOP.
.It mech
The name of a GSS_API mechanism.
"kerberos_v5" is currently the only supported mechanism.
.It number_ret
Buffer in which to place the returned QOP number
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If the QOP and mechanism names are recognized,
.Dv TRUE
is returned.
The corresponding QOP number is returned in
.Fa *num_ret .
Otherwise
.Dv FALSE
is returned and
.It number_ret
is left untouched.
.Sh AVAILABILITY
The
.Fn rpc_gss_qop_to_num
function is part of libtirpc.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rpc 3 ,
.Xr gssapi 3 ,
.Xr rpcsec_gss 3
.Sh AUTHORS
This
manual page was written by
.An Doug Rabson Aq dfr@FreeBSD.org .
